Officials have warned of an ‘outbreak’ of the most poisonous caterpillar in the US in the state of Virginia.

The puss caterpillar is a furry insect covered in venomous spikes which cause pain, swelling, fever and even symptoms of shock when touched, MailOnline reports.

The caterpillar lives in the southern states and feeds on shade trees such as elm, oak and sycamore, but locals have reported seeing it in parks in eastern counties of Virginia.

Crystal Spindel Gaston, a resident in Richmond, Virginia, told the Daily Progress about how she was stung by a puss caterpillar.

She was reaching into the back of her car parked outside her home when she felt an excruciating pain.

‘It felt exactly like a scorching-hot knife passing through the outside of my calf,’ said Crystal, 55 and of New Kent County.

‘Before I looked down to see where it came from, I thought 100% I was going to see a big piece of metal, super sharp, sticking out from my car.’

She felt ‘white hot pain’ and immediately went to the emergency room. She said it took her three days to feel normal again.

Virginia Department for Forestry said it has received numerous reports of the caterpillar, whereas most years there are only one or two sightings.

Eric Day, manager of Virginia Tech’s Insect Identification Lab, said 2020 ‘seems to be an outbreak year’ for the insect.

Virginia Tech shared in a statement: ‘A person “stung” by a poisonous caterpillar should immediately wash the affected area to remove any insect hairs and poison that remain on the skin.

‘Adhesive tape can be applied to the skin and removed quickly to pull out some of the hairs embedded in the skin.’

Officials say the toxic caterpillar population is usually kept under control by natural enemies, but chemical insecticides will be deployed if necessary.

The team also urges individuals who are sensitive to insect stings to seek medical attention, and warns parents to stay vigilant as the caterpillar appears soft and children might want to touch it.

The insect has also been reported in Florida, where it sent a 15-year-old boy to the hospital.

Andrea Pergola said her son Logan let out a scream while they stood in their driveway.

She looked at her son’s arm and saw a giant welt forming, along with a strange pattern that looked similar to a burn mark.

The puss caterpillar is the larva of the small, harmless southern flannel moth, but before the moth emerges it is deemed a danger to the public.

The insects can grow from 1.2 inches up to 1.4 inches, and their bodies are completely hidden under the thick coating of hair. They peep their heads out to feed.

Two schools in Texas closed temporarily in 1923 following numerous reports of puss caterpillars stinging children.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.