(Good News Network) There’s a man in Utah who’s spent 20 years carving hundreds of intricate Jack O’ Lanterns for his community to enjoy.

Retiree Ken Klinker carves 50 to 60 foam pumpkins every year between September and Halloween to display in his yard and around his community in Farmington.

Each of his intricate creations can take up to eight hours to make, and every spooky season Ken displays anywhere from 50 to 275 of them in his front yard.

“I used to carve real pumpkins all the time but then I’d spend several hours carving and I’d have to just throw it away,” Ken explained.

“Eventually I started carving foam pumpkins so I could keep them from year to year.”

Ken’s passion began over when he started carving pumpkins for his kids.

“I used to carve the regular triangle eyes and nose for my kids and one day I bought a book with patterns in it,” he said.

“When I put a light in it the picture popped out at me and I got hooked on carving the more intricate patterns.”

His favorite designs include the zombie Tarman from “Return of the Living Dead,” a skeleton steering a ship, and Captain Jack Sparrow from “Pirates of the Caribbean.”

To make the pumpkins pop even more Ken, lights them with different colored Christmas lights.

“If I have a Frankenstein I can put a green one in it or if there’s a devil I can put a red one in there,” he said.

He sometimes makes his own patterns but also uses ones from the website StonyKins.

Previously he’s been able to also showcase them in his city’s community room and in his wife’s school, but this year due to COVID he’s stuck to his yard and displaying them at haunted houses and haunted forests.

Some of Ken’s designs are also for sale on his Etsy site KensPumpkinPatch.

Ken said that the public’s response is one of his favorite parts of the whole process.

“That’s the thing that drives me to keep doing this, to stand there and watch people as they come in,” he explained.

Let’s take a look at some of his best work.

We wouldn’t want to meet this pirate on a dark and stormy Halloween night.

Hello Little Red Riding Hood… and one very wicked wolf.

Even Mickey Mouse tends to get a little spooky around this time of year.

When Spiderman’s around, you just know there’ll be cobwebs, cobwebs everywhere.

We can see more than a touch of Maleficent here. How about you?

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.