A rare appearance was made by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s wife today when she attended an art performance in Pyongyang as part of the country’s Lunar New Year celebrations.

Wearing traditional attire, Ri Sol Ju was seen chatting and smiling with her husband during the show at the Mansudae Art Theatre. She then took to the stage to shake hands and pose for photos with the art performers, said North Korea’s official news agency KCNA.

Kim Kyong Hui, Kim’s aunt and the first woman in North Korea to join the country’s exclusive politburo, was also seen watching the performance. Kim Kyong Hui disappeared from the public eye for four years in 2013 after her nephew ordered the execution of her husband before making a “surprise comeback” in 2019, said Reuters.

In and out of the public eye

Ri has not been seen publicly since 9 September last year when she visited the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun where the embalmed bodies of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il – her husband’s late grandfather and father – are enshrined.

Before that, she was last seen attending a concert commemorating the birthday of late leader Kim Jong Il on 16 February the same year. Rodong Sinmun, the government’s official newspaper, released several photos of Kim and Ri laughing and smiling as they watched the performance.

Ri had been absent from state media for more than 12 months before the concert, stoking “speculation over her health or a potential pregnancy”, reported the BBC last year. South Korea’s National Intelligence Service (NIS) said she had avoided appearing in public due to concerns over Covid-19 and had been “playing well” with her children.

Ri, who is thought to be in her early 30s, has not always been out of the public eye. Unlike the wives of previous North Korean leaders, she used to regularly join her husband at “high-level diplomatic engagements” and helped establish a more “family-friendly image” for the dictator, said the Wall Street Journal (WSJ).

These engagements included a state visit to China in March 2018 and the April 2018 inter-Korean summit. She also helped host the state visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife in 2019, reported Deutsche Welle.