Raith women’s side has officially split from the Fife club in the wake of its controversial decision to sign the disgraced striker David Goodwillie.

The community team is also in the process of sourcing a new strip without the Raith Rovers crest, while it has also sought permission from the Scottish Football Association to change their name.

On Tuesday, Scottish crime writer Val McDermid announced she would be ending her “lifelong support” and sponsorship of the club in the wake of its decision to sign Goodwillie, who was found on the balance of probabilities to have raped a woman by a civil court in 2017.

An avid supporter of the Scottish championship side for years, McDermid said she would be now turning her attention towards supporting the women’s team, whose captain Tyler Rattray resigned in protest over the signing of Goodwillie.

“The women’s game in Scotland has become a real keystone of Scottish football,” McDermid told BBC Woman’s Hour, adding that the women and girl’s section of the club had been “appalled” by the deadline day signing.

“I’m now turning towards the women and girls teams. My position now is to support them in rebuilding their confidence and their trust in themselves.

"They had a meeting last night and they want to completely distance themselves from Raith Rovers. As we speak they are having new shirts printed that don’t have the Raith Rovers crest on them.”

The women’s team was due to play their next fixture at the club’s Stark’s Park stadium in Kirkcaldy, but are now seeking an alternative venue to play the match. “They are committed to playing their fixture on Sunday not at Starks Park but at another park in the town,” added McDermid. “That’s where I’m focusing my attention, to circle the wagons around them.”

Raith Rovers said in a statement that while it recognised Goodwillie has "divided opinion" among fans, he is considered part of the football club.

"While acknowledging the gravity of what happened ten years ago, as a club we fully support and encourage rehabilitation, and many factors influenced our signing. First and foremost, this was a football related decision," the club said on Tuesday.

But the signing of the 32-year-old from Clyde has sparked a wave of criticism from across football with even the Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon speaking up in support of McDermid’s and Rattray’s actions.

Crime writer Val McDermid has ended her “lifelong support” of Raith Rovers and her sponsorship of them “over their signing of the rapist David Goodwillie”.

The captain of their women’s team also quit in protest, as did one of their directors and their supporter liaison officer, with First Minister Nicola Sturgeon speaking out, too, over a move McDermid branded “disgusting and despicable”.

Announcing she was tearing up her season ticket, McDermid posted on Twitter: “The thought of the rapist David Goodwillie running out on the pitch at Starks Park in a Raith Rovers shirt with my name on it makes me feel physically sick.”

Former Scotland striker Goodwillie was found on the balance of probabilities to have raped a woman in 2017 after a landmark civil court case launched when criminal action against him was discontinued due to insufficient evidence.

Raith signed the 32-year-old from Clyde on Monday in defiance of the public objections of McDermid, a former director of the club whose website valmcdermid.com is their main shirt sponsor.

Raith Rovers said in a statement that while it recognised Goodwillie has "divided opinion" among fans, he is considered part of the football club.

"While acknowledging the gravity of what happened ten years ago, as a club we fully support and encourage rehabilitation, and many factors influenced our signing. First and foremost, this was a football related decision," the club said.

Responding to the move on Tuesday, McDermid wrote: