Brandon isn’t the best of public speakers. When he’s not creepily whispering into the microphone, making some very cringey statement about whatever is on his dementia-addled mind at the time, he’s either running from the press or yelling about something, and not in the inspiring sort of way.

He chose that last tactic when giving a speech about insulin in Pennsylvania, erupting from a whisper to a bizarre roar when discussing the price of insulin. Watch him here:

As you can hear in the video, his raspy whisper suddenly turns into a yell as he rants about the cost of insulin, saying:

“Imagine being the parent making the minimum wage or twice the minimum wage and having a child with type one diabetes, knowing that if you can’t and have no insurance, knowing if you cannot get that money for the insulin, the child may die.

In addition to your child, it strips you of your dignity dammit. Can you imagine looking at your child and you know what they need and not be able to do it? Many of you have lost children. Many of you have seen, imagine, it’s outrageous.”

There’s a lot going on there. For one, Joe should know by now that yelling at the crowd in a snappy sort of way isn’t inspiring, it just makes him look like a dementia patient whose oatmeal wasn’t delivered on time.

Then there’s the fact that the speech was supposed to be about infrastructure, but he was talking about insulin, which is very hard to use as a construction material.

Furthermore, the issue he was snapping about, insulin prices, is one that he’s to blame for. President Trump struck a deal with insulin providers to lower the cost by 66% to $35 for Medicare patients, an action that would have significantly helped those people struggling to pay for it had Brandon kept the rule around.

Brandon, however, froze that action when he made it to office, which made insulin more expensive, then rescinded it entirely, as reported by PolicyMed:

One of the final healthcare actions made by the Trump Administration has been rescinded by the Biden Administration. On December 23, 2020, the Trump Administration finalized a rule that directed the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to take action to require that federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) make insulin and injectable epinephrine available to certain patients at 340B prices. The Biden Administration delayed the rule twice before it became effective on July 20, 2021, and the first opportunity for HHS to impose the requirements of the rule would have been through grants awarded in fiscal year 2022. So, while the rule has been in effect since July, it has yet to be implemented.

Had Brandon just kept the cost-cutting measure around, he wouldn’t have had to make a fool of himself yelling about the issue during an infrastructure speech. But, as is often the case with President Brandon, he decided to go with the route that meant making a fool of himself.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.