As Trudeau & Useful Idiots In Mockingbird Media Berate Trucker Protest, Majority Of Canadians Want COVID Rules To End (Video)

So, what Canadian Prime Minister and coward in chief Justin Trudeau calls a “fringe minority” turns out to be the majority. A recent poll oufnd out that more than 50% of the population want COVID restrictions to end following the convoy of trucks and supporters that protested in Ottawa.
• It’s Not just Happening In Canada – More Than A Dozen Nations Now Have Truck Convoys Truckin’ Against Tyranny (Video)
• As RCMP Retreat From Trucker Protesters, Some RCMP Nazis Tell Truckers “It’s Not An Option We Have” To Go Against Tyrants (Video)
• We Are All Canadian Truckers Now!
• Trudeau Hides in “Isolation” As Canadian Truckers Smash COVID Tyranny With Mass Resistance

After a massive 15 percentage point swing in the space of just two weeks and coinciding with the trucker revolt, the majority of Canadians now want all COVID rules to end.

A poll conducted by the Angus Reid Institute found that 54 per cent of Canadians agree “it’s time to end restrictions,” with the “strongly agree” category of answer rising by 11 points in just a fortnight.

The survey also revealed that a majority of people in every area apart from Atlantic Canada “feel the time is now to open things up.”

In Quebec, which has seen the introduction of some of the most overtly draconian COVID restrictions, 59 per cent want to see restrictions cancelled versus only 34% who are opposed.

“The lone majority-dissenting age and gender group on this question are women over the age of 54. At least half of other cohorts – led by 35- to 54-year-old men – say restrictions should end,” according to Angus Reid.

“The only demographic who want these restrictions to continue are elderly cat ladies who’ve swallowed the media’s propaganda and think they have a 50% or greater chance of being hospitalized if they catch this bug,” notes Chris Menahan.

The shift in sentiment has undoubtedly been driven by the success of the Freedom Convoy, who despite their vilification by the media and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, have seen support for their demonstration grow.

Candice Bergen, deputy leader of the Conservative Party, countered Trudeau’s lurid efforts to portray the group as racists and homophobes by asserting they represented millions who “have had enough of lockdowns and broken promises”.

“They deserve to be heard and they deserve respect,” she tweeted.

Blackface Justin also initially claimed the group represented a “fringe minority” with “unacceptable views,” a smear completely contradicted by the Angus Reid poll results.

The protest began as a backlash to vaccine mandate rules that dictate truckers returning to Canada from the U.S. quarantine once they arrive at home.

Meanwhile, the Ottawa City Council are working against the people as well, wanting to shut down the GoFundMe account that ws established to aid the truckers and referring to them as “mercenaries” and “unlawful protesters.”

As Trudeau hides in fear some place out of the country and shoots spitballs at the truckers and their supporters, referring to them as “hateful and violent,” the reality is that there has been anything but hate or violence demonstrated. Such things are left to the character of a spineless traitor like Trudeau.

Here are the truckers making pizza for anyone that wants one.

They are even feeding the homeless!

They have been peaceful, even calling upon God in prayer.

They’ve even been out picking up trash, cleaning monuments and overall being good neighbors.

What’s Trudeau doing? He isn’t even around.
• It Appears The So-Called “Fringe Minority” Is Actually The Government (Video)
• Precious: Canadian Children Call & Leave Messages For Canadian Truckers In Convoy – “Thank You For Fighting For Our Freedom… For Being Our Heroes” (Video)
• The Canadian Truckers Convoy For Freedom Is Getting Major Support From The People… & Now US Truckers! (Video)
• As First 1,000 Trucks Arrive in Ottawa, Trudeau Conveniently Isolates Himself Due To “COVID Exposure” (Video)

And let’s not forget who Trudeau actually is working for in this plandemic…

Finally, there are numerous MPs in Canada who exhorted Trudeau to meet with the protesters and hear their grievances. Candice Bergen was one of them.

Still, Trudeau remains in his little hideout, scared to come out and face the people who are holding him to account for his lawlessness.

Article posted with permission from Sons of Liberty Media