If I had £100 for every time someone asked me how to fix their 'tired eyes' I'd be a millionaire. We don't tend to mind a few crinkles - after all smile lines are endearing - but we find it harder to tolerate looking 'tired' even when we are knackered, and the statistics prove it.

Harley Street oculoplastic surgeon, Dr Sabrina Shah Desai reveals that now we are living life under a mask, eye surgery has overtaken every other facial treatment in his practice by 60 per cent.

She says, ''I've seen a significant increase in patients enquiring about treatments for the eye area... I think that with the introduction of masks, the emphasis has moved away from the mouth and is now very much on the eyes.'

But, she explains that tired looking eyes aren't just down to a lack of sleep. 'Dark circles and eye bags aren’t just related to how much sleep we are, or aren’t getting. As we age, we lose volume in the under-eye, commonly called the tear trough region. This can cause dark circles, wrinkles, thinning skin, and a sunken appearance. Puffy eyes and sagging skin around the eye area can show up as a result of fatigue, stress, allergies, dehydration and sun damage.

Dr Shah Desai has seen a huge spike in enquiries for tear trough fillers. ‘Dark circles aren’t just caused by ageing,’ explains Dr Shah Desai. ‘We see a number of young patients as early as in their twenties requesting help with their dark circles. This is especially the case for those with darker skin tones. It can be rectified using tear trough fillers which are expertly injected under the eye to give a rejuvenated appearance.’

However, Dr. Shah Desai warns that the treatment isn’t as simple as it sounds. 'Tear trough fillers are one of the most complicated injectable techniques and something that should only be performed by a medical professional. Complications can be devastating, ranging from swelling, lumpiness, bluish discoloration (Tyndall) or even blindness.' Crikey.

She suggests less invasive tweaks like radiofrequency treatments such as Morpheus 8, which can be very beneficial for helping to smooth and tighten the skin and decrease wrinkles, lines and hooding in the eye area with long-lasting results –no surgery, injections and little to no downtime.