Lorraine Kelly attends ITV Palooza! at The Royal Festival Hall on 23 November 2021 in London, England. (Getty/Gareth Cattermole)

Legendary British TV host Lorraine Kelly has come out swinging for trans rights yet again by proudly declaring that trans identities are valid.

The statement comes after Kelly, known for her longstanding role as the presenter on morning talk show Lorraine, absolutely shut down anti-trans academic Kathleen Stock in a blistering interview in November.

Kelly said in an interview on the drag-hosted podcast The Vanity Project that it was “important to have the debate” around trans rights, but she “strongly” disagreed with Stock’s point of view.

“You know, I think that trans women are women and trans men are men. And that’s what I think. And then she doesn’t,” Kelly said.

She continued: “And then I thought it was very important to be able to see, look, you’re not really cancelled, you’re sitting here on live telly, you’ve been on Woman’s Hour, you’re writing books, you’re doing lectures, you know that there’s this misconception that people get cancelled.

“And that’s it. You’ll never hear from them again, you actually hear they actually make more noise sometimes.”

Later in her interview with Stock on Lorraine, Kelly called out the academic for not really having been “cancelled” because she “walked away” from her job.

Stock resigned from her role at the University of Sussex in October following several peaceful student-led protests against her employment for her trans-exclusionary views.

Kelly then questioned if Stock had truly been a victim of the “cancel thing” by rounding up the former professor’s latest TV appearances.

“You’re talking to me, you’ve been on Woman’s Hour. Your book’s been reprinted,” Kelly said.

She continued: “You actually, in a way, have more of a voice now than you probably did before?”

“And I’m going to use it,” Stock said.

After the interview, Lorraine Kelly once again shared her support for the trans community by posting a message of solidarity on social media.

“I believe trans women are women and trans men are men,” Kelly wrote on Twitter. “Dr Stock doesn’t, and we disagree on that.”