The rules: No Covid rules. Just bring your walking boots, spare socks and Scrabble.

Book it: Canopy and Stars has a range of wonderful glamping options in the UK with availability over Valentine’s Day; there is rare availability at the Walden treehouse in the Malvern Hills, staying for two nights and checking in on February 14 (from £410); see canopyandstars.co.uk. Cool Camping also has an array of camping and glamping escapes; see coolcamping.com.

For couples who love a Saturday night on the sofa

The exact location of the Love Island villa remains a well-kept secret, although we can narrow it down to somewhere in the village of Sant Llorenç des Cardassar on the eastern side of Mallorca. James Villas has a range of options in Saint Llorenç – in February it won’t exactly be scorching (highs of 15 degrees), but it’s the quiet season, so you’ll have much of the island to yourselves.

For fans of the American series of Love Island, you’ll need to travel slightly further afield. Love Island USA was shot at the Grand Naniloa Hotel Hilo in Hawaii. Here you’ll find a nine-hole golf course, a fitness centre and sweeping views of the bay. Six nights start from £1,559 per person; British Airways sells holidays there.

The rules: In Spain, fully vaccinated arrivals can enter without tests or quarantine on arrival. However, from February 1, you must have received your second dose no more than 270 days ago. As such, travellers who received their last jab on May 1 or earlier will need to get a booster jab in order to visit Spain. They must also sign an online Health Control Form. The rules in the Balearic Islands depend on the alert levels of each island. Mallorca is currently under Level 3 rules, meaning that Covid passes are required for entry to some venues. Find out more on the Spain FCDO page.

People from the UK travelling directly to Hawaii must present both a vaccination record and a negative Covid-19 test result (antigen is OK) within one day of boarding their flight to the US. Mask rules are in place in the island chain. The island group could soon request a booster shot, on top of double vaccination. Most indoor venues will request proof of vaccination or a negative test to enter. Find out more on the USA FCDO page.

For couples with a sense of humour

This is our pick for couples with a sense of humour who find the very concept of Valentine’s Day a bit nauseating, but who see it as a good excuse to do something anyway.

Zagreb’s Museum of Broken Relationships is one of the most visited sights in the Croatian capital. It is billed as a museum to our “collective emotional history” and features objects symbolising failed relationships from around the world.

The project was set up by two Zagreb-based artists, Olinka Vištica, a film producer, and Dražen Grubišić, a sculptor. After their four-year relationship came to an end in 2003, they joked about setting up a museum to house the items left behind by their break up. Three years later, the idea came to fruition and the Museum of Broken Relationships was born.

They describe the museum, which now also has an outpost in Los Angeles and has a touring exhibition of the world, as an: ​​"art concept which proceeds from the (scientific) assumption that objects (in the broadest sense, i.e., matter as a whole) possess integrated fields – ‘holograms’ of memories and emotions – and intends with its layout to create a space of ‘secure memory’ or ‘protected remembrance’ in order to preserve the material and nonmaterial heritage of broken relationships.”

Admission is 40kn (£4.42), for more information see brokenships.com.