Spectators will no longer be able to buy alcohol during the second half of Wales’s Six Nations home matches after the potentially match-changing pitch invasion in their defeat by South Africa.

The Welsh Rugby Union confirmed on Wednesday that bars would be closed after half-time of the country’s home games against Scotland, France and Italy, that low-percentage alcohol would be phased into use at the venue, and that in-stadium and online messaging would also be used to emphasise the importance of responsible drinking.

The crackdown follows pitch invasions in Wales’s autumn international defeats against New Zealand and South Africa, in the second of which an intruder impacted significantly on the match, causing a home attack to break down while the scores were level.

Callum Rowe, 28 at the time, was handed a lifetime ban after wandering on to the field for a £20 bet, which led angry fans to throw their drinks at him.

The WRU said it acted following a number of high-profile incidents and reports of poor behaviour at the 74,000-seater stadium, including from customer surveys conducted after each game. A statement read: “A series of measures, which include closing food and beverage outlets in all concourses after half-time in all three home matches against Scotland, France and then Italy, have been put in place on a trial basis for the 2022 Championship and will be subject to an ongoing review.”

WRU chief executive Steve Phillips said: “We want our supporters to remain passionate and enthused and to continue to bring their best voices to the Principality Stadium – throughout the recent pandemic it is our supporters who we, and the Wales team, have missed most – but we also need them to behave responsibly and to encourage those around them to do the same.

“We have taken a series of measures which are designed to change a direction of travel from some quarters which was detected at our Autumn Nations Series matches. But do so without negatively impacting the experience of a hardcore and hugely significant base of supporters who make the Principality Stadium experience what it is.”

He added: “We will continue to innovate as we seek to offer the very best experience possible to all visitors to Cardiff.

“These measures are not radical, but they do seek to address an issue that has been recently recognised and it is my commitment to all Wales supporters that we will not stop.

“We will continue to evolve until this issue is eradicated.

“We have always boasted we have the best supporters in the world game in Wales and we firmly believe this remains the case. We recognise these trial measures will be welcomed by some fans. Others will feel we’ve either gone too far or done too little.”