Since 2020, the Free Thought Project has been blowing the whistle on the draconian mandates and the horrifying devastation they left in their wake. As team doom dogmatically chanted their mantra of “we follow the science,” it quickly became clear that that many of them weren’t very concerned with actually following any science at all.

The World Health Organization and others came out shortly after the lockdowns began saying that schools are safe and that school closures are leading to a slew of horrifying childhood problems.

“Schools can reopen safely,” said Dr Ruediger Krech, WHO Director of Health Promotion, back in December 2020.

Yet those who claim to “follow the science” continued to keep children locked down and out of school — leading to an epidemic of childhood suicide. This is just one of many examples.

Despite brutal lockdowns, mandates, the complete destruction of the economy, the decimation of medical freedom through mandatory vaccination campaigns, and putting the police state on steroids across the planet, cases still shot to record levels through December and January.

Every time the cases rise, the politicians take to their podiums and blame the citizens for not following their arbitrary and often entirely unscientific dictates close enough. More force is threatened and more arbitrary rules were rolled out. Despite the utterly horrifying effects of the lockdowns, politicians across the world kept forcing them on the citizens.

Recently, however, some of those on team doom have begun throwing in the towel and realizing that the people won’t stand for it anymore. It could be that these lockdown prone tyrants are actually starting to follow the science and realize that their tyranny couldn’t stop the pandemic but it is likely just ploy for a midterm election boost.

Whatever their intentions, the less lockdowns, the better. And, according to a new study, those who continue to advocate for lockdowns aren’t following the science at all.

A new report by economists who carried out a meta-analysis, found that coronavirus lockdowns had ‘little to no’ effect on pandemic death tolls in the US, UK and Europe. The lockdowns, according to the researchers, only reduced mortality by 0.2 percent.

While the lockdowns didn’t stop deaths, they certainly caused a lot of them.

Their report, led by a Johns Hopkins University professor — which has not been peer-reviewed — identified 18,590 global studies into lockdowns, which they claim had to be whittled down to just 24 to answer their research question, according to the Daily Mail.

Naturally, the study is being highly criticized by the mainstream as it challenges the narrative of team doom. However, it coincides with findings from other analysis going back to the beginning of the pandemic.

In May of 2020, we reported how lockdowns led to “a year’s worth of suicide attempts in four weeks.” And this was just two months into the lockdowns. As the Branch Covidians rolled out more draconian measures like vaccine passports and mask mandates, COVID-19 returned — with a vengeance, leading to even more senseless lockdowns. All the while, the people continued to suffer.

As stated above, TFTP predicted this since 2020. Several studies have shown that the lockdowns were not effective at stopping the virus. In June 2021, we reported on the study from the National Bureau of Economic Research which analyzed data from 44 countries and all 50 states. The study from the NBER found that these restrictions not only failed to save lives, and greatly exacerbated the destruction of the working class — but have in fact resulted in an increase of excess mortality. At the end of the day, they cost more lives than they saved.

Also in June 2021, TFTP covered the findings of an MIT scientist who reported a data analysis of the economic impact of the lockdown — noting that whilst it played a key contributing role to the sharp rise of unemployment, it did not make a significant reduction in deaths.

And on June 22, a Harvard University study reiterated the fact that while this policy did not save lives it decimated the economy; while modern robber barons such as Zuckerberg, Gates, and Bezos saw their portfolios expand exponentially. This was yet another report, as TFTP’s Don Via Jr. pointed out, that much like the aforementioned, did not receive national headlines from the corporate media.

While many folks, including those in government, have begun to open their eyes to the data and realize that locking people in their homes, shutting down society, and forcibly medicating people against their will does not stop Covid, others are still pressing on.

This is why anti-lockdown protesters have taken to the streets across the planet to protest the lockdown tyrants. This is why thousands of truckers descended on Ottawa as Trudeau hid from them.

This is why it is time for America and the rest of the world who are not yet up in arms, to open their eyes and realize that giving up your freedom for safety, always ends with losing both.