President Trump, during his recent rally in Texas, said that he’ll work to free and pardon those January 6th political prisoners that the leftists have locked up if he runs and is elected. In his words:

“If I run and if I win, we will treat those people from January 6th fairly. And if it requires pardons, we will give them pardons because they are being treated so unfairly.”

That call for freeing the political prisoners was well-received by many on the right, which has generally been infuriated by the horrible manner in which the January 6th prisoners have been treated.

RINOs and Conservative, Inc. cowards, however, won’t back Trump’s call for them to be treated fairly. Mitch McConnell said as much recently, which you can watch here:

As you can hear in the video, the reporter asks “How concerned are you about the former president offering pardons to people who attacked the Capitol on Jan. 6…?”

McConnell, rather than backing Trump’s call for fair treatment of those who have been so horrendously imprisoned while BLM rioters have gone free, took the typical RINO route and bowed to the wishes of the Democrats, saying:

“One hundred and sixty-five people have pleaded guilty to criminal behavior. None of the trials have been finished yet, but 165 have pleaded guilty to criminal behavior. My view is, I would not be in favor of shortening any of the sentences for any of the people who pleaded guilty to crimes.”

Left unsaid were the facts that many of those rotting in DC prisons haven’t pleaded guilty to anything and that many of them have raised allegations of serious mistreatment. As Summit News reported:

Attorneys of some of the prisoners have previously alleged that they are regularly being denied access to their clients, who are being subjected to torture in jail.

The inmates and some of their lawyers have alleged that they are being held in solitary confinement and have been subject to beatings, threats and verbal abuse by guards.

[One] attorney described his client Ryan Samsel’s face as looking “like a tomato that was stomped on,” after a beating by correctional officers that left him “blind in one eye, [with] a skull fracture and detached retina.”

However, while he ignored those facts, McConnell went ahead and mindlessly repeated the “insurrection” narrative, saying:

“What we saw here on January the 6th was an effort to prevent the peaceful transfer of power from one administration to another, which had never happened before in the history of our country.”

Apparently, in the Kentucky RINO’s view, walking around unarmed in the Capitol counts as “prevent[ing] the peaceful transfer of power.”

Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina RINO that also backed Brandon’s decision to racially discriminate in choosing a new SCOTUS justice, sided with the Democrats over Trump too, saying:

“No, I don’t want to send any signal that it was OK to defile the Capitol. There are other groups with causes that may want to go down to the violent path that these people get pardoned.

[…]those who did it [January 6th], I hope they go to jail and get the book thrown at them because they deserve it.”

The RINOs are siding with the Democrats yet again. No surprise there.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.