Perry Moore, managing director of Silhouette UK talks about choice and variety both being key. "We have thousands of styles, shapes and colour variations to choose from, so it's incredibly important to us that consumers are able to select the style that best suits their personality and lifestyle."

Choosing frames that are designed to last is also vital. Timeless shapes and styles which transcend trends are important - as it's less common to change your glasses as often as you would your clothes.

However Perry also notes the importance to people being allowed to express their personalities through their choice of eyewear. If you're someone who will need to wear their glasses all of the time, this makes a lot of sense so you'll most likely want to seek a unique design that you can also wear in your own way. Perry continues: "Silhouette offers something for everyone - where you're looking for big, bold and beautiful or simple and classic."

Anna Laub, founder and creative director of Prism London agrees. “Glasses are functional, but you wear them every day and they’re the first thing people see on your face.”

If you're someone who is constantly indecisive, there’s no need to limit your selection to just one pair. “It’s still strange to me that people have 30 pairs of shoes but normally only one pair of glasses,” Laub says.

At Jimmy Fairly, the trendy, accessibly priced French eyewear brand, there’s been a shift from basic, round shapes to more oversized, bolder frames. “People are getting more into their glasses, and they’re also more creative,” says Daphnée Duchatel, the brand’s culture manager – most convincing in her Dimby glasses, squarish black acetate frames with thin gold arms.

Eva Gaume, creative director of French luxury eyewear brand Emmanuelle Khanh, a brand whose bold, black frames wouldn’t look out of place on a Helmut Newton model (Newton actually photographed Khanh when she was a model in the Seventies), has been having “a lot of fun” with her bold resin eyewear chains. “They make me feel I’m really giving something to people in the streets …. The saddest thing is when everyone looks the same.”

As for glasses, mixed tortoiseshell tones or classic colours are still going strong. “A classical black or dark frame can really look beautiful on a Zoom meeting,” she says. “Blue, burgundy, brown – it will never be a faux pas.”

Updating your glasses could be as simple as taking a familiar shape for a spin in a different colour. After so many geeky acetate rectangles, the aviator moment and clear acetate glasses (touch lab-glass-ish, if you ask me), the new thing is lightly tinted acetates. “They give the face a little bit of a lift,” says Primrose Hill optician Adam Simmonds, who offers pale blue, clear mint and blush frames. He recently fitted some literal rose-tinted glasses – one way to counteract all the doom and gloom.