Highly offensive language used on WhatsApp and in Facebook chats by officers from a now disbanded team based in Westminster, primarily at Charing Cross Police station, was exposed after whistleblowers contacted watchdog the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC).

Officers joked about “raping” and “hate-f------” female colleagues, and beating their partners in a series of racist, sexist and homophobic messages which they tried to excuse as “banter.”

Ms Patel said: "In terms of failure of leadership, the fact that those behaviours were allowed to take place, there were no disciplinary actions, no-one saying that's wrong, that is actually about leadership in policing.

“So that's superiors, that's seniors, line managers calling that behaviour out and actually stopping it in the first place.

Asked if she had confidence that Dame Cressida could make the changes required, Ms Patel said: "I'm very clear and upfront with the Commissioner about the problems that we see in the Metropolitan Police ... with a range of failure points, where there's -

“I'm not even going to call it underperforming - but behaviours, culture, particularly post the awful murder of Sarah Everard. And I'm very challenging directly with the Commissioner and I will continue to be so because the public want answers."

Asked again if she had confidence in the current Met Commissioner, she replied: "I've always said that I'm confident in her and her work, but that also means that change is required ...

"There are lots of issues, it's not straightforward with the Met, and there are lots of issues there where we need to see major, major significant improvements: culture, delivery, accountability and protecting the streets."

Dame Cressida’s contract was extended last September by Ms Patel and Boris Johnson to enable her to serve an extra two years, with government sources indicating there was no obvious successor as Met commissioner.

The first woman to lead the force, she was appointed in 2017 and will remain until 2024. Her extension came despite high-profile signatories - including innocent public figures falsely accused of sex abuse - writing an open letter, accusing her of "presiding over a culture of incompetence and cover-up".