That led to the Global Athlete organisation labelling the situation of two-time Olympian Meylemans, who tested positive upon arrival in Beijing on Sunday but was told she was free to leave her hotel after meeting release protocols, as “totally unacceptable”.

The International Olympic Committee responded by saying the situation was caused by no appropriate room being available back in the athlete's village and that another would be sourced on Thursday.

A solution came about even quicker with the 25-year-old escorted from her isolation facility shortly before midnight in Beijing, and then posting a video of thanks to her supporters from the village looking refreshed and "feeling safe."

But it was the treatment that went before and her emotional video, in which she stated "I'm not sure I can handle these Olympics anymore", which further flames concerns over Olympic organisers' draconian approach to Covid measures and it's "closed-loop" policy for participants at the Games.

"I am not sure I will ever be allowed to return to the village," an increasingly emotional Meylemans, who caught covid at the start of the year, had said.

"Obviously this is very hard for me. So I ask you all to give me some time to consider my next steps, because I’m not sure I can handle 14 more days and the Olympic competition being in this isolation.”

Meylemans' ordeal began with her entry into China at the weekend when, like many athletes, she appeared to fall foul of the more sensitive Covid testing being used at the airport.

Forced from the Olympic village into an isolation hotel and having to train in her room while her rivals took to the ice, she posted a picture of her frantically using an exercise bike and a plea to consider athletes' mental health.

"I have now been tested negative three times in a row. And yet I am not released. I've been in isolation for 72 hours now. However, I have more than proved that I am perfectly healthy. I thought the mental health of the athletes was a priority after Tokyo 2020?!?”

It all proved too much when her anticipated return to the Olympic village did not materialise.

Rules state athletes who test positive must follow close contact protocols for seven days after posting two negative Covid-19 tests. An IOC statement released before Meylemans was returned to the village read: "Close contacts can train and compete, live in the Olympic Village, but need to be in a single room, transported alone and need to eat alone. Since there was no such room directly available, she is temporarily accommodated in a hotel close to the Olympic Village.

"When the IOC learned about her personal situation after her arrival in the hotel, it took immediate contact with the NOC [National Olympic Committee] of Belgium to ensure that appropriate support is offered to her swiftly."

Women's skeleton training officially begins next Monday, with the competition starting on Feb 11.

"Thank you for all your love and support," said Meylemans on Wednesday. "It seems like the video and especially also the efforts of my Olympic committee have really paid off. I am now in a wing that is just isolation but at least I'm back in the village, I feel safe and I'll be able to train a little better here."

Earlier Marita Kramer, the world's leading female ski jumper, became the latest major Covid casualty of the Games after she was forced to withdraw three days before her competition.

"No words, no feelings, just emptiness, is the world really this unfair?" wrote the 20-year-old on social media.

American Timothy Leduc wants to bring a different narrative to figure skating stereotypes when they become the first out non-binary athlete to compete at a Winter Olympic Games in Beijing.

Traditionally figure skating - and especially the pairs discipline - has been based on a heteronormativity ideology that sees skaters assuming specific gender and romantic roles.

But Leduc and their American partner Ashley Cain-Gribble, the daughter of Australia's 1980 Olympic pairs skater Peter Cain, want to change the message their sport delivers.

The figure skating team event gets underway in Beijing on Friday before the pairs event takes centre stage in the final days of the Games.

"Ashley and I represent an alternative in pairs skating, a different narrative," said Leduc. "Often we see the 'Romeo and Juliet' narrative or the 'fragile girl and the strong man' narrative.

"There is nothing necessarily inherently wrong with people doing a romantic programme but sometimes that narrative is centralised in such a way it leaves no room for any other stories to be told, or other narratives or other pair teams are maybe seen as less worthy of points or medals.

"So we just like to represent a different narrative and hopefully make more space for other stories to be told in skating."

Leduc, who grew up in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, initiially received backlash from their family - as well as members of the figure skating family - when they first came out as gay. Their family has since become more supportive of their sexuality and gender identity, but they revealed a girl once opted not to skate with them as being gay was thought to be a "liability" to her.

Leduc and Cain-Gribble, meanwhile, have competed together since 2016, twice winning the American national figure skating pairs title, first in 2019 and then most recently last month.

"When you look at our programmes and you break them down, we are both skating as much as the other person and we are both bringing that same amount of energy and fire to each programme," added Cain-Gribble, who has regained her own self-esteem after being body-shamed as a young skater.

"Our mantra that we like to say about our pairs skating is that it’s ‘two pillars of strength’. So when we are out on the ice we are both equal energies working together."

The duo, who are coached by Cain-Gribble's father, are targeting an "amazing" top-five finish but equally important is to leave an impression.

"We are just hoping that people at home can see that there are two people out there that are bringing something non-traditional to this sport and that they can feel like they belong as well," Cain-Gribble, who often skates in a unitard, said.

"Because many times we were told that we didn’t belong and we just want to show that everybody is a part of this sport and we can all come together to make it beautiful."

While Beijing represents the first Winter Olympics to feature an out binary athlete, at last summer's Games, Canadian footballer Quinn became the first to win a gold medal while American Alana Smith competed in skateboarding.