Donald Trump reacted to the news that CNN’s former President Jeff Zucker has resigned following a sex scandal.

“Jeff Zucker, a world-class sleazebag who has headed ratings and real-news-challenged CNN for far too long, has been terminated for numerous reasons, but predominantly because CNN has lost its way with viewers and everybody else,” Trump said in a statement. “Now is a chance to put Fake News in the backseat because there may not be anything more important than straightening out the horrendous LameStream Media in our Country, and in the case of CNN, throughout the World.”

“Jeff Zucker is gone — congratulations to all!” Trump added.

CNN’s President Jeff Zucker announced on Wednesday he is resigning from the cable news network, “effective immediately,” the cable outlet earlier reported.

Zucker said in a memo: “As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo’s tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years. I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn’t. I was wrong. As a result, I am resigning today.”

“Zucker did not name his colleague in the memo, but the relationship is with Allison Gollust, the chief marketing officer for CNN. Gollust is remaining at CNN,” he said.

“In an email to staffers sent shortly after Zucker’s, Jason Kilar, the CEO of CNN parent WarnerMedia, said” “I have accepted Jeff Zucker’s resignation as Chairman of WarnerMedia News and Sports, and President of CNN Worldwide. We thank Jeff for his contributions over the past 9 years.”

Kilar added: “We will be announcing an interim leadership plan shortly. Both of these organizations are at the top of their respective games and are well prepared for their next chapters.”

The real “bombshell” is that Zucker is resigning for yet another sex scandal at CNN, and not the network’s tanking ratings. CNN lost 90% of its ratings in the year since Trump left office.

As seen on Becker News. Follow Kyle Becker on Twitter, Telegram, Instagram, Facebook, Gab or Parler.