Judge Decides Parents Are Too Stupid To Understand Data To Know How Many Kids Died From COVID Shot

The People are going to have to stop taking this kind of abuse from those who believe they somehow have authority over us. Yet, a high court in the United Kingdom has denied the right of parents to know the rate of adverse reactions, including death, in children who were given the experimental shot.
• Criminal CDC Now Confirming Multiple Cases Of Myocarditis In Children Ages 5-11 Who Took Pfizer COVID Shot (Video)
• Doctor & Consultant To NHS On Promoting mRNA Shot: “I Was Wrong…Good God. What Have We Done”

The Expose has the story.

Parents have been denied the right to know the rate of adverse reactions to the Covid-19 vaccination in children.

A High Court judge in the UK has sided with government policy to keep secret the number of children who have suffered adverse reactions—including any who have died—as a result of having the vaccine.

A mother, identified only as EF, had asked the UK’s Office of National Statistics (ONS) to release the data so that parents can make an informed decision about having their child vaccinated. After the ONS refused, EF took legal action to force it to reveal the numbers, and she has been supported in her campaign by TV presenter Beverley Turner, who helped raise £100,000 to pay legal costs.

But Mr Justice Jonathan Swift denied the application, arguing that parents did not have the ability to properly interpret the data. “Correlation does not equal causation, and the ONS information is not necessary to decide that claim.”

EF, who has two daughters aged 13 and 16, and so are eligible to have the Covid vaccine. said: “None of them want to take the vaccine. We have no information. They can’t tell us if the jabs cause cancer or blindness and until we know, how can we make a properly informed decision?”

After reviewing the safety data, the UK’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation had recommended against vaccinating children and young adolescents but had been over-ruled by the UK’s four chief medical officers.

According to the UK’s Yellow Card system—a voluntary scheme where doctors log suspected drug and vaccine side effects—there had been 2,546 reports of adverse reactions among the under-18s up to December 22nd last. It is estimated the scheme captures just 10 percent of adverse reactions and side effects.
• Senator Ron Johnson Holds Panel Discussion on ‘COVID-19: A Second Opinion’ & The Data is Alarming (Video)
• Have You Seen These Latest Deaths & Adverse Effects From The Experimental COVID Shots?
• New York Nurse Whistleblower On Botched COVID Shots On Children: “Some People Got The Wrong One” (Video)

Government always withholds the truth under the guise of national security, or public safety or they just don’t think the public can handle it, but the truth is that if they let the truth loose, the people would hang them by their scrawny necks.

These parents want simple answers to simple questions. After all, it’s their kids that are being targeted by these tyrants, and this judge should be removed for really bad behavior and prosecuted for his involvement in the coverup of the biggest crime in human history.

Article posted with permission from Sons of Liberty Media