Whoopi Goldberg is suspended from "The View" after her "wrong and hurtful" comments on the Holocaust during the January 31 episode of the show.

During a discussion with co-hosts, Goldberg claimed the Holocaust, which involved the murder of 6 million Jews and other victims, was not "about race." Her co-stars, anti-Semitism groups and fans on social media immediately pushed back on her statement. The TV host quickly apologized and addressed her comments on-air during "The View" the next day.

Joy Behar started off the show on February 2 as moderator and quickly addressed Goldberg's suspension.

"You all saw the news, Whoopi will be back here in two weeks," she said.

Here is everything we know about the situation and her suspension.

What did Whoopi Goldberg say to get suspended?

Goldberg made her initial comments during a discussion about a Tennessee school board banning the book "Maus" from the eighth grade English and language arts curriculum.

The graphic novel, written by comic artist Art Spiegelman, tells the story of his Jewish parents living in 1940s Poland and follows them through their internment in Auschwitz.

More:'Maus' sales soar after book is banned by Tennessee school board

During the show's discussion of the book ban, Goldberg said: "Let's be truthful about it, because the Holocaust isn't about race," Goldberg said Monday. "It's about man's inhumanity to man. That's what it's about."

Co-host Behar chimed in, saying, "Well, they considered Jews a different race," in reference to the Nazis. "View" contributor Ana Navarro also pushed back, saying, "But it's about white supremacy."

"But these are two white groups of people," she said. "You're missing the point. The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley. Let's talk about it for what it is. It's how people treat each other. It's a problem. It doesn't matter if you're Black or white, cause Black, white, Jews ... everybody eats each other."

The comments drew a quick response on Twitter and Goldberg became a trending topic on the social media platform that day.

Anti-Defamation League CEO Jonathan Greenblatt was one of the users who corrected the host on Twitter.

"(The Nazis) dehumanized them and used this racist propaganda to justify slaughtering 6 million Jews," he added. "Holocaust distortion is dangerous," Greenblatt wrote.

StandWithUs, an organization dedicated to education about Israel and fighting anti-Semitism, tweeted that the Holocaust "was driven by multiple factors, and there is no doubt that one of them was Nazi racism against Jews."

"Nazis back then and white supremacists today consider Jews to be a different and inferior race," the organization added, along with a clip of the discussion on "The View."

How long is Whoopi Goldberg suspended from 'The View?'

Goldberg is suspended from "The View" for two weeks, Godwin announced in statement February 1.

“While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments," Godwin said, calling her words "wrong and hurtful." "The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities."

How did Goldberg address the criticisms?

Goldberg apologized on social media writing, "On today's show, I said the Holocaust 'is not about race, but about man's inhumanity to man.' I should have said it is about both."

She added: "I stand corrected. The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I'm sorry for the hurt I have caused."

The social media apology was followed up with her on-air apology saying she is "grateful" for the corrections and that "the information I got was really helpful and helped me understand some different things.”

Greenblatt was also invited on "The View" to discuss why Goldberg's words had been hurtful. He added that the show should consider hiring a Jewish co-host as they're still seeking to fill Meghan McCain's spot since her departure last year.

McCain's last day on "The View" was in August and the show has yet to announce her replacement. Since her departure, guest co-hosts have joined the show during the 25th season. Current hosts are Goldberg, Behar, Sunny Hostin and Sara Haines.

What did Meghan McCain say about the controversy?

Former "View" co-host Meghan McCain, whose views frequently conflicted with those of Goldberg while on the show, wrote a column for the Daily Mail about Goldberg's comments.

"I hope this can be used as a teachable moment to explain to millions of Americans why conflating the Holocaust as something that is specific and limited to 'white people' is insane, ahistorical and anti-Semitic," McCain wrote. "For as much as the left is fond of using Nazi comparisons and imagery, the truth of the Holocaust, who it targeted and why, deserves to be known and understood by all."