Typically, members of both House and Senate would gather in the House chamber to receive the governor’s spending ideas, but the three-day winter storm forced legislative leaders to cancel all three scheduled session days this week.

Pritzker instead chose to speak at the historic Old State Capitol where he paid tribute to special guests, a group of teachers and medical professionals battling the COVID-19 pandemic who "have showed up to work ... during the worst health crisis our state has ever seen.”

The state of the state, Pritzker said, is “strong, unbreakable and enduring.” So with inflation pushing 7%, the governor wants to lift for one year the 1% sales tax on groceries, freeze the motor fuel tax that goes toward road building at 39.2 cents per gallon instead of allowing the indexed rate to increase to 2.2 cents and provide a rebate of up to $300 dollars equal to the property tax credit available on income taxes.

“Painstaking work has been done ... over the last 3 years to diligently and meticulously reverse the irresponsible decisions of the past and ensure that responsible budgeting would become the rule, not the exception," Pritzker said.

“He plans to raise billions more in taxes when the federal money runs out," Irvin, who has yet to appear publicly in his campaign, said in the statement.

Sen. Dave Syverson said the federal money reduces overall spending, but disguises a $2.5 billion increase in operations. Those are costs that will continue even when there's no federal money to cover them, the Rockford Republican said, presenting “a massive cliff after the election that unfortunately taxpayers are going to get stuck with.”

Pritzker's office countered that the $8 billion in federal aid — the current budget uses $1.5 billion and there's $535 million in the proposed plan — has been used for pandemic-related expenses, not ongoing programs, and that they've adjusted for a federal funding dropoff.

There's no question the plan shows substantial investments in debt long haunting the state. Pritzker intends to eliminate this year the $898 million in past-due bills for the employee health insurance program. What in recent years has been a monstrous backlog of bills due state vendors — $7 billion on Wednesday — will be reduced to $2.7 billion, putting it on a 21-day payment schedule. There's even $900 million socked away in a rainy day fund for unanticipated emergencies.

And the leviathan hole in state employee pension funding, about $130 billion, will get an additional, if small, contribution. The $9.6 billion put toward pensions in the coming budget still isn't enough to stay on track with a law requiring substantially paid-up coverage by 2045. Pritzker is bumping that up by $500 million to reach what aides call a “tread water point.”

There is additional program spending as well. The Department of Children and Family Services would get $200 million, in part to hire 360 more employees to deal with increasing caseloads of troubled children, a problem given extra attention by the stabbing death of a caseworker in the field last month.

Rising crime will be a major issue in the campaign. Pritzker would put $800 million into prevention programs, recruit 300 additional state police officers, put $50 million in cannabis tax revenue toward communities with crime problems and increase funding to prevent gang crimes, hate crimes and increase staff at forensic crime labs.