Alabamians of a certain age will remember a time when Democrats held virtually every elected office in the state. The tide began to change in the early 1960s. In the Goldwater era, Alabamians elected Republicans to four of the state’s U.S. House seats, but most other state and local offices were held by Democrats.

It would take another 25 years before a Republican occupied the governor’s office. In 1987, Alabama voters elected Guy Hunt, the first Republican governor since Reconstruction, and shortly thereafter, Democratic politicians began joining the GOP. “I didn’t leave the Democratic Party,” one official said at the time. “The party left me.”

Today, Republicans hold every constitutional office and elected judicial seat. Republicans have served as governor since 2003, and have held the majority in both houses of the state legislature since 2011.

In a deep red state like Alabama, that’s of little consequence to most voters, who would darken the oval next to the Republican candidate regardless of challengers.

However, the political scene in Alabama suffers from the absence of two viable political parties. If competition in business improves the quality of businesses for consumers, then surely vigorous debate from competing political philosophies would result in more robust political platforms and more capable candidates.

In a report this week by al.com, state Democratic leaders said they’re in the process of a long-term rebuild – which sounds a lot like “There’s nowhere to go from here but up.”

The COVID-19 pandemic and its myriad variations has been anathema to much of our society, community and general way of life, but one thing it has done is to force us to connect in new and unique ways that can actually be productive.

For the past two years the global pandemic has compelled us to be creative in keeping the wheels of governance on the bus, and live streaming whether by Zoom or masked and socially distanced has allowed the public a front row seat to watch that governance in motion. And while government bodies have long been obligated to allow in-person access to its inner workings, the ability to live stream — and record — public meetings for off-time viewing means that the transparency and accountability fundamental to effective government has been dramatically enhanced. And, video capabilities such as automatic close captioning increases community engagement from sectors of the community that may have been previously disenfranchised due to disability.

Today, as the pandemic begins to wane in some quarters, or perhaps more due to COVID-19 fatigue, local governments that have been live streaming and recording for months are considering going back to in-person meeting only. This is exactly the wrong course for those bodies to take. Yes, live streaming is an expense and can be technologically daunting, but the dividends of a working resident being able to view a Tuesday morning council meeting outweigh the costs and challenges.

COVID-19 has taught us many harsh lessons during the past two years. Opening governmental meetings is one of those, and something we can learn from.