WASHINGTON – The House committee investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol attack met Wednesday with former Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark, who was expected to refuse to answer questions about his role in urging the Trump administration to challenge the 2020 election results.

The committee had voted Dec. 1 to hold Clark in contempt and urge the department to prosecute him for defying a subpoena. He appeared Nov. 5, but refused to answer questions by citing executive privilege and attorney client privilege to keep communications with former President Donald Trump confidential.

The panel postponed a House vote on the matter until meeting with Clark again, when his lawyer warned he would refuse to answer questions under his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.

More than 300 people have cooperated with the committee and provided 30,000 documents.

More:What documents does Trump not want the Jan. 6 House panel to see? Appointments, call logs and handwritten notes

The House found political strategist Steve Bannon in contempt and the Justice Department is prosecuting him. Bannon vowed to fight the two charges, with a trial set July 18.

The House found former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows in contempt and urged the department to prosecute him. Meadows provided thousands of pages of documents, but refused to testify or provide contested documents. His lawyer argued that Meadows never stopped cooperating, but was upholding Trump’s claim of executive privilege.

The House investigative committee subpoenaed Clark as part of its investigation to piece together what led to the attack on the Capitol and how the White House responded that day. About 140 police officers were injured. Police fatally shot a woman outside the House chamber as the counting of Electoral College votes was temporarily halted.

More:Former acting AG Jeffrey Rosen provides 7 hours of testimony before Senate panel investigating election interference

A Senate Judiciary Committee report recounted a contentious Oval Office meeting Jan. 3, when Richard Donoghue, then-acting deputy attorney general, warned that a mass resignation of Justice Department officials and federal prosecutors would follow if Trump moved to replace acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen with Clark, to aid the president's election subversion scheme.

The committee also subpoenaed Clark to discuss his efforts to enlist the Justice Department in an effort to sow doubt in election results in Georgia. The Senate report found he attempted to countermand the top leaders at the department by drafting a letter to Georgia officials seeking to delay the state's certification of election results.

According to the Senate report, Clark sought to enlist Rosen to assist in "Trump’s election subversion scheme," telling Rosen that he would decline Trump's offer that he take Rosen's place if Rosen agreed to join.

More:Timeline: How the storming of the U.S. Capitol unfolded on Jan. 6