Feature Image: Who really stands to gain by setting Ukraine on fire?

GOP to Tucker Carlson: We’re the decision-makers on Ukraine, not you

[ Editor’s Note: Oh my, trouble comes to Fox News and the Republican paradise with them huffing and puffing about Carlson’s commentary over the make believe pending Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Here we have a whole list of Rep Senators who have no problem at all supporting the worst of the worst drivel that comes out of Trump, that make Carlson wayyyy past even being a second stringer in the geopolitical hype game.

And for the rest of us, who have watched both he and the Repubs treat the Jan 6 Committee like a joke, with their full support for the Insurrectionists, excuse us if what happens to Ukraine is way down the list.

Ukraine should get as much attention as what it has done to fulfill the Minsk agreement after a long negotiation, which is absolutely nothing. To that I can add the two EU ‘guarantors’ of the agreement, France and Germany who did nothing to push Kiev to honor the agreement, something that Putin will remember I am sure.

The political griftering, primarily to get news exposure is hardwired into our system, where the more provocative the statements the more coverage on can get. Trump was certainly the master of that con. He was…the Don of the News Con… Jim W. Dean ]

Jim's Editor’s Notes are solely crowdfunded via PayPal

 Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving & more. Thanks for helping. Click to donate >>

In recent days, Carlson has attacked Republicans who are pushing for a stronger response to Moscow’s aggression — slamming Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) as “ignorant” and Sen. Jim Risch (R-Idaho) as “a moron masquerading as a senator” and “pompous neocon buffoon” simply for advocating long-standing GOP orthodoxy when it comes to Russia.

…Meanwhile, Ukraine remains under active threat from an invasion that some are warning could be just the first domino to fall in Eastern Europe.

“I don’t agree with those views,” Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about Carlson’s monologues. “[It’s] the U.S. interest not just in Europe but around the world in not having countries decide, ‘That belongs to us, we’re going to go ahead and take it.’

…“At least some share of the Republican Party’s base is now at the very least confused about what’s happening between Russia and Ukraine, and at worst putting pressure on Republican elected officials to, in effect, take Russia’s side,” said Rep. Tom Malinowski (D-N.J.), a former top State Department official who just returned from a bipartisan delegation in Kyiv.

…“Why is it disloyal to side with Russia, but loyal to side with Ukraine?” Carlson asked during a Jan. 24 episode, calling Ukraine “strategically irrelevant” to the U.S. He later said that Putin “just wants to keep his western borders secure.”

You can read the full Politico article here.