Trump’s latest claim that election could have been ‘overturned’ looms over electoral count debate in Congress

[ Editor’s Note: Trump is not stupid. He knows what he has done and what is coming at him. He is not going to sit back and watch the tidal wave come in and consume him without a fight.

So he is falling back on his often used tactics, to go on the offensive, charge everyone else with being crooked, that the election was stolen, with the unsaid that he then had a right to try to steal it back.

He is also his own worst enemy. His brain could not process that, by involving an army of grifters to assist him, their efforts would undermine his case, vis à vis losing 64 out of 65 court cases on his claims of election fraud. Trump’s team responded that it did not matter, but it does matter a lot.

Whereas a traditional high level politician would have given up the ghost at that point, a mob guy would not, especially one trained by mob lawyer Roy Cohn. In 2020, Trump enlisted a crowd of Roy Cohn ‘wannabes’ thinking ‘the more the merrier’, not realizing that would create a larger pool of potential flippers for future prosecutors. One thing that Trump has going for him, something unique, is that he has a large following that just loves the lies. They really get a buzz watching their champion doing what they would like to do, ram things up the butts of people they don’t like. Even ‘normal’ Republicans accept this situation as a force of nature now, surrendering any thought of trying to reform Trump to cut his losses and fade away. They are just biding their time, keeping their heads down, and trying to save their political careers, despite so many actors becoming ‘mini Trumps,’ waiting for the day when he is gone to pull the Trumpers under their own wing… Jim W. Dean ] Jim's Editor’s Notes are solely crowdfunded via PayPal

 Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving & more. Thanks for helping. Click to donate >> New statements from former president Donald Trump insisting that his vice president, Mike Pence, could have “overturned” the 2020 presidential election have jolted a congressional debate over potentially changing the 135-year-old federal law …The ideas of making it harder for Congress to intervene and to clarify the vice president’s role have some degree of GOP support, but another proposal — to ban state legislatures from appointing substitute presidential electors after voters cast ballots — is likely to be more controversial. …“I think everybody knows this law needs to be clarified, except perhaps the former president,” said Sen. Angus King (I-Maine). “I think his comments only underline the fact that it needs to be clarified.” Top Republicans said they remained open to the discussions. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told reporters the law is “clearly flawed and needs to be updated,” while Minority Whip John Thune (R-S.D.) suggested Trump’s comments could actually help forge a deal. “Clarifying it makes sense,” Thune said, adding that Trump’s comments “perhaps add additional arguments in favor of trying to fix this and slam the door shut on this once and for all.” You can read the full Washington Post article here.