On Tuesday, Manchin used some strong language when asked about Joe Biden’s atrocious Build Back Better bill:

“What Build Back Better bill?” Manchin said when asked about the bill by reporters.

“There is no, I mean, I don’t know what you’re all talking about.”

“No, no, no no. It’s dead.”

Our friends at Newsmax with the latest from Joe Manchin:

Sen. Joe Manchin declared Tuesday that President Joe Biden’s vast social and environment bill is “dead,” using his strongest language to date to underscore that any revival of Democrats’ top domestic priorities would have to arise from fresh negotiations. The remarks by the West Virginia Democrat didn’t substantively alter the stance he’d taken in December, when he said he couldn’t support the legislation as written, essentially dooming it. But his latest comments illustrated the election-year challenges facing his party as it struggles to resuscitate parts of the package and win over voters weary of the two-year-old pandemic and coping with the worst inflation in decades. “What Build Back Better bill?” Manchin said Tuesday, using the legislation’s name, when reporters asked about it. “There is no, I mean, I don’t know what you’re all talking about.” Asked if he’d had any talks about it, he added, “No, no, no no. It’s dead.”

When asked later to elaborate on his comment that the legislation is “dead,” the West Virginia Democrat said, “If they’re talking about the whole big package, that’s gone.” On the possibility of supporting a smaller package, he said, “We’ll see what people come with. I don’t know.” Manchin once again raised concerns over inflation and said that passing a government spending bill “has to be done first.” He also pointed to bipartisan efforts to reform the Electoral Count Act as a priority, saying those talks are “on a hot track now.” Since Senate Democrats control only a narrow 50-50 partisan split, every single member of their caucus would need to support the legislation for it to pass under a process known as reconciliation, which would allow them to avoid a GOP filibuster. PRAYER CHAIN FOR TRUMP: Please add your name and a prayer to support our President! That dynamic has given Manchin outsized influence over the process and the ability to stop Build Back Better altogether if the rest of his party can’t find a way to get him on board.

Jen Psaki and other democrats seem to be in denial about the Build Back Better bill being dead:

However, Florida congressman Byron Donalds says the bill is “basically dead:”