Cardinal Dolan comforts Mora's relative during his funeral Mass, attended by fellow officers and family members

Hundreds of somber NYPD officers filled the streets of Midtown Manhattan in preparation for their fallen brother's funeral

Officers turned out in their finest dress blues and white gloves to honor Mora, 27, who was fatally shot on duty on January 21 in Harlem

An officer in full dress uniform embraces a woman outside the cathedral on Fifth Avenue

Bagpipers in their traditional outfits march past the packed St Patrick's Cathedral during the Mass

A percussionist with the NYPD Emerald Society Pipes and Drums band performs outside St. Patrick's Cathedral eb. 2, 2022, in

Mora's mother, Amalia, is pictured arriving for her youngest child's funeral at St Patrick's Cathedral on Wednesday morning, less than a week after the funeral for his slain partner

NYPD officers perform at the cathedral ahead of the service, which is expected to be attended by dignitaries

Mora (left and right) was taken off life support a week ago. Being an organ donor, in his death the 27-year-old helped save five lives

'We are not safe anymore': Widow of Wilbert Mora's slain partner Officer Jason Rivera attacks woke Manhattan DA for being soft on crime Officer Jason Rivera's widow, Dominique, lashed out at Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg while delivering her emotional eulogy on Friday at St Patrick's Cathedral During Officer Jason Rivera's funeral at St Patrick's Cathedral last Friday, his young widow, Dominique Rivera, used the solemn occasion to vent some of her anger at the city and state's leaders, many of whom were seated in the audience before her, accusing them of failing to protect her husband and his partner, Wilbert Mora Rivera lashed out at new Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg, a progressive Democrat who has instructed prosecutors not to pursue certain cases, including some allegations of resisting arrest. 'The system continues to fail us. We are not safe anymore. Not even the members of the service,' Rivera said. 'I know you were tired of these laws, especially the ones from the new DA. I hope he’s watching you speak through me right now.' Bragg, who had no involvement with the officers' killer, Lashawn McNeil, responded ]in a statement that he was grieving and praying for the slain officers and will 'vigorously prosecute cases of violence against police.'

For choosing a life of service. For sacrificing his life to protect others. For giving life even in death through organ donation,' she said in announcing his January 25 death.

Sewell was seen arriving at the church on Wednesday morning for Mora's funeral, along with other top dignitaries, including Mayor Eric Adams and Governor Kathy Hochul.

Adams delivered a eulogy during the service, saying of Mora: 'we reflect on his bravery. We remember his sacrifice.'

Mora's funeral was taking place hours after an off-duty police officer was shot and wounded as he drove to work in Queens.

Police said the officer was shot by one of two men who approached him when he was stopped at a traffic light shortly before 10:30 p.m. Tuesday. The officer, whose name was not immediately released, was in stable condition at a hospital Wednesday and two men were arrested.

Mora was the youngest of four children in a tight-knit family that emigrated from the Dominican Republic and eventually settled in East Harlem. He is survived by his older sister, Karina Mora, and two brothers, Wilson and Jonathan.

'He was a gentle giant,' Rashad Mujumder, Mora’s high school friend, told PIX11. Mujumder said that standing at 6 feet, 3 inches tall, Mora was 'the biggest person in the room with the softest heart.'

Mujumder said Mora’s father supported his family as a barber and his mother, Amalia, worked in health care.

'His parents are very proud of him,' the friend said. 'Seeing him put on the uniform was an amazing moment for them.'

Mora, 27, joined the New York Police Department in October 2018, after graduating from John Jay College of Criminal Justice. According to one of his professors, Irina Zakirova, Mora was interested in improving relations between police and the neighborhoods they patrolled.

'He was so certain about becoming a police officer - a good police officer,' Zakirova said.

That sensibility endured in his police work. Stephanie McGraw, a domestic violence victims' advocate who got to know Mora while visiting his stationhouse, said last week that he 'understood the importance of getting into this very crucial and important role as a police officer - to not only make a difference but to bring some more men and women of color into the NYPD.'

At the same time, Mora made 33 arrests during his few years on the job. Fellow officers recalled him as a humble, helpful colleague who took the bus to work.

Retired NYPD detective-turned-Fox News contributor Angel Maysonet paid tribute to Mora on Instagram, sharing a series of photos of the officer spending time with friends.

He wrote in a post accompanying the images: 'Everyone says he was a big teddy bear. Kind. A fun “goofball.” Life of the party. Always smiling. Took care of his elderly parents who are lost & devastated without him. Young Dominican son of NYC. The epitome of what you want as an NYPD cop.

'Everyone says he was a big teddy bear. Kind. Life of the party. Took care of his parents who are lost and devastated without him.'

On January 21, Mora and Rivera was responding to a domestic violence dispute inside a Harlem apartment when police say 47-year-old Lashawn McNeil threw open a door and opened fire.

McNeil died a day after a third officer shot him as he tried to flee, officials said.