Iran is “weeks, not months” away from being able to power an atomic bomb, a senior State Department official told reporters on Monday after the conclusion of a round of indirect talks with Iran and other world powers in Vienna.

After 10 months of negotiations, the State Department confirmed that the diplomatic talks about Iran’s nuclear capabilities would come to an end whether the nation accepts the deal offered to it or not. The Biden administration believes that Iran’s nuclear program has advanced to the point that, should the Biden administration propose re-entering the 2015 nuclear accord, it will provide no benefits to the United States and the globe.Since former President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear agreement his predecessor established with the ayatollah, Iran has enriched uranium to extremely high levels of purity, expedited the installation of advanced nuclear centrifuges, and prevented international inspectors from investigating its process by barring them from entering the country.

According to the Washington Free Beacon, the senior State Department official said, “We are in the final stretch because, as we’ve said now for some time, this can’t go on forever because of Iran’s nuclear advances. This is not a prediction. It’s not a threat. It’s not an artificial deadline.”

The official continued, “It’s just a requirement that we’ve conveyed indirectly to Iran and to all our [international] partners for some time, which is that given the pace of Iran’s advances, its nuclear advances, we only have a handful of weeks left to get a deal, after which point it will, unfortunately, be no longer possible to return to the [deal] and to recapture the nonproliferation benefits that the deal provided for us.”

Should Iranian leadership accept the deal the United States offers, the sanctions imposed upon Iran by the Trump admiration will no longer apply and the United States will supply the country with billions of dollars in cash. Since taking office, the Biden administration has worked to reduce Iranian sanctions.

The ongoing negotiations between the United States and Iran have been marred by Iran’s refusal to work directly with the United States, thus making it necessary to bring other countries into the mix as go-betweens for discussions. Russia is one such country. And the recent worsening of relations between the United States and Russia increases the likelihood that negotiations could fall apart.

Should Iran refuse to accept whatever deal the United States offers, it is likely that sanctions will be reapplied.

The senior State Department official said, “That means more pressure — economic, diplomatic, and otherwise. That’s not a future we aspire to, but it’s one that we’re ready for.”

In recent months, Iran launched rockets into space — allegedly for research purposes — and launched over a dozen ballistic missiles in order to intimidate Israel.

Iran is growing bolder as it moves closer and closer to building a nuclear weapon.