The C.E.O. of Reuters is a major shareholder and board member of Pfizer.

This one fact alone should draw extreme scrutiny towards anything that the news agency prints, claims, or otherwise pushes by using the subtle power of the 4th estate.

It is not a new idea that the media manufactures consent for the state and acts as a mouthpiece for government edicts.

Likewise, it is not a new idea that the state and the corporate sector act in concert to achieve specific motives—the classic definition of fascism.

Reuters, CNN, The New York Times, and The Associated Press are among the biggest contractors willing to do the job of pushing the state narrative, so it begs the question: why are they shifting the narrative now after nearly 2 years?

According to a recent report from Reuters, Ivermectin has a seemingly powerful anti-viral effect against the Covid-19 virus as shown by joint research conducted by a Japanese firm.

Certain sources including Reuters initially reported that this had been shown in phase 3 clinical trials—which isn’t true, but what is true is that joint research into the drug has found it to show these powerful anti-viral effects against Covid.

We have known this for a while now, but it is surprising to see Reuters of all outlets acknowledging this.

Liberals want to play the semantic game and claim that Reuters made some grave error here, but the difference between what they said, and what actually happened is mere minutia in the greater context of their narrative.

For over a year now we have heard that Ivermectin was completely ineffective against Covid-19, dangerous, and those who took it were nothing more than rubes consuming horse dewormer.

That’s why this story is significant; it really doesn’t matter that they are reporting this from a lens of phase 3 clinical trials, or if they are getting reports corroborated by a number of medical sources indicating the benefits of Ivermectin.

Could it be that the MSM, the deep state, and pharmaceutical corporations know that their narrative has been all but destroyed? Do they know that this strategy of blatant misinformation on Covid-19 is fundamentally unsustainable?

By now everyone who isn’t a bleeding heart liberal with pictures of Marx and Maddow lining their walls know of the Covid duplicity, and most people are sick of it.

Countries have begun to lift all Covid-19 restrictions, and the narrative is definitely shifting, so perhaps the end to all this nonsense is in sight—now we just have to deal with the sociopolitical fallout.

Here’s more on the story:

Here is the top line from the Reuters article: