CNN President Jeff Zucker stepped down on Wednesday after being outed for his years-long secret relationship with colleague Allison Gollust, a relationship that only came to light during the investigation into Chris Cuomo.

Zucker and Allison Gollust, 49, have worked together for more than 20 years. The pair were both married previously, but are now separated from their partners - thanks in part to their romance.

They lived in the same apartment building on the Upper East Side with their respective families until Zucker sold his apartment during his divorce from his ex-wife Caryn. It's unclear when the divorce was finalized but they split in 2018.

Gollust is also divorced, though it is unclear when she and her husband Billy - who runs an online marketplace platform - split. Billy has not commented.

Well-placed sources say their romance has been an 'open secret' for years at CNN.

Zucker, however, lied about when it began during the investigation into whether or not Chris Cuomo, formerly the network's most successful host, helped his brother, former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, through his sexual harassment scandal.

Gollust worked for a brief time as Andrew Cuomo's director of communications. She is now an Executive Vice President of PR at CNN, and will be staying on in her role despite Zucker's departure.

It's unclear how investigators came to learn that he lied.

One sources told DailyMail.com on Wednesday: 'Jeff’s affair with Allison has been going on forever – not since covid! Everyone has known it but he still denied it.

'It was part of the reason for his divorce, but not the only reason. It was inevitable that it would come out – he should have been up front sooner.'

Another said: 'It was the worst kept secret inside the building. Jeff’s office was right next to Allison’s office at Hudson Yards and before that at the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle.

'The joke was they weren’t only sharing a wall.

'No one believes that this only happened over pandemic. They have been close for years.

'The closest it ever came to being outed was when Page Six reported on their “heavy exchange” at the Hollywood Reporter’s 35 Most Powerful People in NY Media party. They had a very public fight at the party that didn’t seem to have anything to do with work.'

Zucker, in his statement, said: 'As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo's tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years.

'I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn't. I was wrong.'

Gollust, who said she will remain at the network, confirmed the affair in a statement Wednesday released to the New York Times.

'Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years,' she wrote. 'Recently, our relationship changed during COVID. I regret that we didn't disclose it at the right time.

'I'm incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do everyday.'

The couple was spotted together at a Billy Joel concert last November, where they were called out for defying mask regulations.

In 2017, Zucker and Gollust were seen in a heated argument at the Hollywood Reporter's 35 Most Powerful People in NY Media party.

A source explained at the time that while the party was taking place, Zucker and Gollust suddenly started intensely speaking and making anguished hand gestures before Gollust stormed away into the crowd.

'It looked like she was reprimanding her husband or something,' mocked an unnamed rival news executive at the time.