Lindsey Graham recently said that he opposed pardoning Jan 6th protestors.

Graham called pardons “inappropriate,” despite the fact that most of them actually didn’t do anything wrong.

“I hope they go to jail and get the book thrown at them, because they deserve it.”

“Lindsey Graham is wrong. I mean, Lindsey’s a nice guy, but he’s a RINO.”

“Lindsey Graham doesn’t know what the hell he’s talking about if he says that,” Trump added.

The New York Post shared President Trump’s strong comments against Graham:

Former President Donald Trump labeled Sen. Lindsey Graham — a staunch supporter of the 45th president — a “RINO” Tuesday night for disagreeing with him on potentially pardoning those involved in last year’s Capitol riot. During an interview with Newsmax, Trump was pressed on Graham’s statement that pardoning defendants held in connection with the riot was “inappropriate.” “You talked about the potential, if it’s appropriate, of pardoning some of the January 6ers,” Newsmax host Rob Schmitt said. “Lindsey Graham said a couple days later he thinks that’s inappropriate. What do you think?” “Lindsey Graham doesn’t know what the hell he’s talking about if he says that,” the former president added.

President Trump was responding to recent comments from Graham while on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”

Graham said that he disagreed with the idea of pardoning Jan 6 protestors:

Our friends at the Washington Examiner have more on President Trump’s comments:

“Lindsey’s wrong. Look, they tried to burn down Washington — we’re talking federal buildings. They were terrible. Every Democrat city was on fire, and nobody says anything about it. Antifa and BLM were causing so many problems, including death,” Trump continued. Trump argued that unlike the protests during the summer of 2020, only “one young fine woman” died during the Jan. 6 riot on Capitol Hill. In truth, five people died were found to have died after the riot ended. Trump set his focus on Ashli Babbitt, a supporter of his who he said was killed by a “ruthless man who never should have used his gun to shoot her.” The Capitol Police officer who shot and killed Babbitt, Lt. Michael Byrd, told NBC News last year that he used his gun on her as a last resort. The Justice Department declined to charge Byrd in connection to the shooting, and the Capitol Police separately found that his “actions were consistent with the officer’s training and USCP policies and procedures” and that he “potentially saved Members and staff from serious injury and possible death” at the hands of the rioters.

Good on President Trump for calling Graham out on this one.