The “Sex and the City” revival “And Just Like That” is reaching the end of season one soon, leading viewers to wonder if that’ll be the end of the line for Carrie, Charlotte, and Miranda. The fate of these three cult favorite characters doesn’t feel certain after mediocre reviews plagued the reboot.

Now it sounds like the trio will live to see another season. Sarah Jessica Parker addressed the looming question during an interview with Variety Tuesday.

“[Executive Producer Michael Patrick King] and I spoke two weeks ago, and said: ‘OK, when are we going to talk about this?’” Parker told the publication. “There’s a calendar and you don’t want to let too much time pass. There feels like there’s momentum.”

The critics may not love the series, but HBO Max executives are pleased with how many people are tuning in regardless. “In terms of viewership, it’s been phenomenal. I couldn’t be happier with how it’s doing in terms of reception,” chief content officer Casey Bloys said.

King also told Variety that a Kim Cattrall cameo is highly unlikely. “I have no realistic expectation of Kim Cattrall ever appearing again,” the producer told Variety.

However, fans have already proven they’re willing to watch the other three main characters navigate dating and life in their 50s, even if some viewers are watching out of morbid curiosity and not necessarily because they’re loving it.

A New York Post review early in the season pointed out several issues with the reboot, which only reinforced some of the worst aspects of the original “Sex and the City.”

“Carrie was always the worst, a narcissist who grew more malignant with each passing season. It’s amazing that SJP can’t see it — she’s always played Carrie as a charismatic, irresistible heroine rather than the soul-sucking friend and mediocre writer she is,” the review said.

The article also addressed some of the bizarre additions to the narrative, which tried its best to be woke and progressive but instead got slammed for trying too hard.

“The cringe, after all these years, remains strong,” the review continues, citing several examples. “The sophisticated and urbane lawyer Miranda Hobbes acts as though she’s never encountered a black person in her decades of living in Brooklyn and New York City.”

“And we’re meant to believe a humorless nonbinary character [Sarah Ramirez as Che Diaz] — jackknifed into this milieu — is a stand-up comic, given to hyper-woke campus jargon such as, ‘What can … a straight cis male personally do to eradicate the harmful patriarchal system of this gender binary compulsive heterosexuality?’”

Since that review dropped, Miranda separated from her husband, fan-favorite character Steve Brady, to pursue a relationship with the nonbinary podcast host Che. But instead of embracing Miranda’s new adventure, viewers are mostly sad the character is confusing infatuation with love and giving up on her marriage for a fling. Especially when she chastised Carrie for doing the same during the original “Sex and the City.”

With promising viewership numbers plus Parker’s hinting at a season two, there’s a good chance “And Just Like That” will be renewed. Hopefully writers take the criticism to heart and start crafting a more realistic script that isn’t so focused on pandering to the woke crowd.