The leaders of Black Lives Matter have 60 days to produce information about the charity's $60 million bankroll, according to a letter from the California DOJ to the activist organization obtained by the Washington Examiner.

And as the Examiner notes, the letter comes just days after they uncovered that BLM has no known leader in charge of its giant war chest since its co-founder resigned in May - and that the Los Angeles address they list on their tax filings is wrong.

"The organization BLACK LIVES MATTER GLOBAL NETWORK FOUNDATION, INC. is delinquent with The Registry of Charitable Trusts for failing to submit required annual report(s)," reads the letter from California AG Rob Bonta.

BLM is also prohibited from "soliciting or disbursing charitable funds" in California until it submits its 2020 Form 990 and other financial records to the state, the California DOJ informed the charity Monday. The letter added that the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation, the legal entity that represents the national BLM movement, faces fines for "each month or partial month for which the report(s) are delinquent." "Charitable assets cannot be used to pay these avoidable costs," the California DOJ warned BLM. "Accordingly, directors, trustees, officers and return preparers responsible for failure to timely file the above-described report(s) are for payment of all penalties, interest and other costs incurred to restore exempt status." -Washington Examiner

If they fail to come clean, California may revoke BLM tax-exempt status and impose fees, in addition to holding directors personally liable.

Meanwhile, the state of Washington ordered BLM to "immediately cease" fundraising in the far-left state until they similarly come clean about their finances.

In February of last year, BLM reported that it had closed out 2020 with $60 million in its bank accounts, however the charity refuses to say who's been in control of its funds for the last eight months.

In May, BLM co-founder Patrisse Cullors resigned amid a controversy over a homebuying spree. While Cullors co-founded BLM with Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi in the wake of George Zimmerman’s not guilty verdict in the Trayvon Martin death, she was the only one who remained with the foundation that took in $90 million last year, in the wake of George Floyd’s death while in police custody.

Cullors, a self-proclaimed Marxist - was branded a "fraud" after buying a $1.4 million home in a posh California neighborhood that's 88% white.

Various BLM chapters have been complaining about the organization's lack of transparently as well.

In a December 2020 statement, the local chapters said:

The local chapters also said the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation appointed Cullors as its executive director against their wishes and without their knowledge, rendering her leadership illegitimate.

And now, they have 60 days to come clean or face consequences in the state of California.