Citing the crisis created by Joe Biden at America's southern border – by his decision to abandon the security measures adopted by President Trump such as the wall construction – one member of Congress said the work preparing to impeach the president should begin now.

It is Breitbart that reported Rep. Andy Biggs, R-Ariz., explained evidence must be collected and preserved for what could happen later.

Republicans are expected to move into the majority in the U.S. House following this fall's elections, and many expect them to be in the majority in the Senate as well.

A simply majority in the House can vote to impeach a president, but it takes a supermajority in the Senate for a conviction.

Biggs, in an interview with Breitbart, said both Biden and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas should be impeached for their decisions that opened America's southern border to millions of illegal aliens.

"Mayorkas has violated the law," the congressman explained, "That’s why I’ve introduced a resolution to impeach Mayorkas. He needs to be impeached, so does Joe Biden for what he’s done on the border.

"I can give you all kinds of other areas that I think he should be impeached for, but what he’s done on the border, and the ramification of what he’s done on the border, makes him impeachable," Biggs said. "So I’ve asked [and] encouraged leadership to put together a set of working groups to create investigative committees."

He said, "We need to be preserving evidence now – preparing now – so that when we come to power in January, when we have the majority, we can begin with the investigations — and where necessary — the impeachments. They need to be held accountable for what they’ve done. "

Breitbart explained Biggs continued, "I’ve introduced resolutions to impeach Biden and Antony Blinken … because they’ve all committed high crimes and misdemeanors. We face the wall, not of Mr. McCarthy [who] has said that he thinks that we need to be looking into the same things I just was talking to you about. But I want to be preparing now. We’ve got to be preparing now and pushing this now…"

He said one of the grounds for the action would be the fact that "ICE Air" – federal government planes – are being used to transport illegal aliens all around the country.

Content created by the WND News Center is available for re-publication without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].

SUPPORT TRUTHFUL JOURNALISM. MAKE A DONATION TO THE NONPROFIT WND NEWS CENTER. THANK YOU!