The Biden Administration made an agreement with the Taliban to protect American troops upon exit from Afghanistan and 13 died in a suicide bombing. This Administration pushes abortions and vaccines in the testing stage, and now it has halted President Trump’s Executive Order that reduces the cost of insulin for the diabetic.

Thirteen American soldiers died as a result of Joe Biden pulling American troops from Afghanistan. We covered this on September 6, 2021.

After overturning Trump’s actions that gave America energy independence, rolling out trillions in spending, and setting the US on a course to destruction again, Biden/Obama went global – Afghanistan was the result. For starters, the American military was put to shame. On September 1, 2021 Alan Bergestein wrote on Arutz 7, an Israeli publication: We’ve always believed in the superiority of the American military leadership. US generals and admirals were the bravest and finest. So how did none of them speak up publicly before – not after – and oppose the order to first pull out our troops from Afghanistan and then, without military protection, follow up by evacuating our own (defenseless) civilians and Afghan allies? What buck private would simply hand over $83 billion of our most modern weapons to our enemy? And who among US military leaders nodded in approval when the highly fortified and secure Bagram airbase was turned over to the Taliban, leaving us the use of the single-runway, indefensible civilian airport, located smack in the middle of Kubal? Then came the infuriating, needless deaths of 13 American service members, and Biden checking his watch numerous times while their remains were being received in the US. Instead of saving the Americans in Afghanistan, the Biden/Obama Administration brought in over 100,000 Afghans, who have not been vetted at all, while ignoring Americans in the country.

But that isn’t all. Biden backs abortions both in the US and abroad.

When talking about health care, one particular group is those on insulin. An article at Veterans Today noted this past week:

Insulin prices in America have become untenable and efforts are underway to lower them to a reasonable rate, as in many other developed nations. Many analysts believe the current state of US healthcare has brought shame upon the United States, one of the richest countries on the planet, where healthcare is expected to be an innate human right for one and all.

The Mayo Clinic in 2019 noted the crisis with the cost of insulin.

The most commonly used forms of analog insulin cost 10 times more in the United States than in any other developed country. There have been many other recent reports of deaths in patients with type 1 diabetes because of lack of affordable insulin.

So in July 2020, President Trump signed an Executive Order allowing individuals in the States the ability to purchase insulin at cost:

. . . It is the policy of the United States to enable Americans without access to affordable insulin and injectable epinephrine through commercial insurance or Federal programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to purchase these pharmaceuticals from an FQHC [Federally Qualified Health Centers] at a price that aligns with the cost at which the FQHC acquired the medication.

But the ‘Administration of Death’ didn’t like it so the order was halted. Biden recently went on a rant about parents not being able to help their children. He forgot that he is responsible for the exact same thing he was getting upset about.



This Administration is not about life or liberty. Their actions show it