The New York Times on Monday sued the State Department to obtain emails from Romanian embassy officials sent between 2015 and 2019 that me...

The New York Times on Monday sued the State Department to obtain emails from Romanian embassy officials sent between 2015 and 2019 that mention Hunter Biden and his former associate Tony Bobulinski, Politico reported.

Recall, Tony Bobulinski was the CEO of Sinohawk Holdings which was a partnership between the Chinese operating through CEFC/Chairman Ye and the Biden family.

Tony Bobulinski said Joe Biden was heavily involved in his son’s international business dealings.

“Hunter Biden called his dad “the Big Guy” or “my Chairman” and frequently referenced asking him for the sign-off or advice on various potential deals that we were discussing,” Bobulinski said. “I’ve seen Vice President Biden saying he never talked to Hunter about his business. I’ve seen first hand that that’s not true, because it wasn’t just Hunter’s business, they said they were putting the Biden family name and its legacy on the line.”



“In a new lawsuit on Monday, the newspaper sued the State Department to obtain emails from Romanian embassy officials sent between 2015 and 2019 mentioning a number of international business people, including the president’s son and his former business associate TONY BOBULINSKI, who briefly became a political celebrity at the end of the 2020 election because of his Biden connections.” – Politico reported.

One of the Times’ goals in the suit appears to be finding out whether embassy officials did any favors on behalf of private businesses (including, presumably, that of the president’s son) that would raise questions about possible conflicts of interest and corruption. Specifically, the request seeks records about “(1) the possible improper use of federal government resources to assist and advance private business interests with connections to United States government officials and (2) the possible evasion of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) by those private business interests, and (3) the non-enforcement of FARA by the federal government in relation to those private business interests.” The FOIA requests are a sign that the paper is still investigating the web of international business relationships cultivated by the president’s son. Senate Republicans in 2020 searched for evidence that then-vice president Biden manipulated Ukraine policies to benefit his son but failed to prove any wrongdoing by Biden himself.

Constitutional scholar Jonathan Turley weighed in the Times’ lawsuit aimed at digging into Hunter Biden’s dealings and said it “could get a bit awkward for the White House staff.”

Here’s a brief background on part of Hunter Biden’s China money laundering scheme with CEFC:

Bobulinski described how Jim Biden and Hunter Biden went behind his back and did a shady side deal with CEFC and got a $5 million “interest free loan” from the Chinese energy firm.

On August 8, 2017, $5 million was wired from a CEFC-affiliated investment vehicle to the bank account for Hudson West III, which spent the next year transferring $4,790,375 million directly to Hunter Biden’s firm, Owasco, according to Senate documents.

Senate investigators described how the Chinese state owned energy company wired the $5 million “loan” to Hunter’s firm through an investment vehicle — to the bank account for Hudson West III –which then dispersed the money to Hunter’s firm (money laundering).

Background on part of Hunter Biden’s money laundering operation through Ukrainian energy company Burisma Holdings:

In 2014, Hunter Biden was paid millions of dollars to sit on the board of Burisma Holdings, a corrupt Ukrainian energy company despite having no experience in the field.

Hunter Biden was being paid millions of dollars from Burisma at the same time his father Joe Biden was US VP and tasked as the point man to handle Ukraine policy.

Around the time the FBI opened its investigation into Hunter Biden and his associates, Rudy Giuliani dropped a bombshell revealing a huge money laundering operation involving the Bidens and Burisma Holdings.

Giuliani described how Viktor Shokin, the prosecutor general investigating Burisma discovered Hunter’s money laundering scheme.

“All of a sudden Shokin gets this communique from Latvia that shows a $16 million laundering transaction — classic laundering transaction,” Giuliani said. “It goes from Ukraine, to Latvia, it’s disguised as a loan to another company to ‘Wirelogic’ I believe — it then goes to Cyprus, gets disguised as another loan — this is called “Digitech” then it’s dispersed as payment as board fees,” he added.

Giuliani added, “Now you don’t make two loans to make board fees unless you’re laundering the money. $3 million gets to Hunter Biden in that way.”

“That is a straight out violation of a money laundering statute,” he said.