The co-hosts on “The View” are furious – FURIOUS I SAY! – at ABC after the network suspended Whoopi Goldberg, another member of the herd, over her comments that the Holocaust was “not about race.”

Goldberg has the brain of a very intelligent woman. I hear she keeps it in a jar on her desk.

“Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments. While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments. The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends and communities.”

Goldberg made the idiotic claim on Monday’s episode where she insisted that Nazis and Jews were both white, therefore the Holocaust wasn’t about race. Stupidly, she then went on Steven Colbert’s show that same evening and repeated her statement.

Whoopi walked her statement back later that evening on social media.

“On today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’ I should have said it is about both. As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race.’ I stand corrected.

The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused.

Godwin then praised Goldberg in an email to ABC staffers for her apology and she invited Greenblatt on Tuesday’s show to talk about the comments made by the person she just praised. Is that not insanity?

Goldberg’s suspension, though, came as some ABC insiders said they don’t believe her apology is enough and argued that she should be fired.

“People are really upset and don’t understand why it took two days,” an ABC executive told the super duper leftist Daily Beast.

More ABC insiders revealed that Goldberg’s co-hosts Joy Behar, Sunny Hostin, and Ana Navarro are livid that she was suspended.

Navarro, who has been a regular guest host on the show, defended Goldberg.

“I love Whoopi Goldberg. I love ‘The View,’” Navarro told the Daily Beast (the left-wing website, not co-host Joy Behar).

“This was an incredibly unfortunate incident,” Navarro added. “Whoopi is a lifelong ally to the Jewish community. She is not an anti-Semite, period. I am sad. And I have nothing else to say.”

“When you have five women, discussing complex topics, in five-minute segments on unscripted, live TV, sometimes things come out the wrong way,” Navarro said “We are human and make mistakes. The difference between us and others is, we acknowledge it and try to correct it. Whoopi clarified and apologized without caveats.” Substitute Trump for Goldberg and see if she makes the same gesture.

On Tuesday, Greenblatt told Goldberg, “there’s no question that the Holocaust was about race. Literally, the first page of ‘Maus,’ the book you were talking about yesterday, Whoopi, opens with a quote from Hitler, and literally it says, ‘The Jews undoubtedly are a race, but they are not human.’”

Greenblatt continued. “Hitler’s ideology was predicated on the idea that … the Jews were a subhuman race. It was a racialized anti-Semitism.”

On Monday’s show, Goldberg’s comments went viral when she argued that the Holocaust “isn’t about race.”

“What is it about?” Joy Behar then asked.

“It’s about man’s inhumanity to man, that’s what it’s about,” Goldberg said.

Tuesday night, Greenblatt made an appearance on CNN‘s Don Lemon’s show and said he couldn’t comment on the internal process at ABC News, and added that he hopes Goldberg will use the next two weeks “for a process of introspection and learning.”

When Lemon mentioned that some folks over at ABC wanted Goldberg fired, he responded by saying, “I don’t believe in cancel culture. I like the phrase that my friend Nick Cannon uses: ‘We need counsel culture.’ We shouldn’t cancel Whoopi because she made a mistake,” he said.

He added, “I heard Whoopi say that she’s committed to doing better. I accept that apology with the sincerity with which she delivered it.”