released a trailer on Saturday for a film entitled “2,000 Mules” in which ’s 27 terabytes of geospatial data and 24 terabytes of ballot drop box surveillance videos will be turned into a documentary film.

President Donald J. Trump released a statement late last week about the historical election and the movie from his point of view:

“The movie exposes the lies of the Democrats, RINOs, and Fake News who say it was the “most secure election in history.” It was, perhaps, the least secure in history. The ballot box was stuffed, and stuffed like never before—and it’s all on video. Ballots were trafficked and old in a massive operation in each Swing State. The evidence is so damning, what will the cowards who sat and did nothing about the stolen election say now? The way our votes were taken away is a disgrace to our Nation. It must be fixed.”

True The Vote posted on GETTR shortly thereafter:

“We’ve been quiet over the past year. Don’t mistake our silence for apathy, we are mad with you Patriots and we have spent the past year fighting for you. This is just the teaser trailer, there is more and the best is yet to come. Onward!’

Dinesh D’Souza posted the following link on his Twitter on Tuesday:

Breitbart News reported on their exclusive findings about the film project:

Conservative election integrity group True The Vote has been conducting a months-long massive and clandestine voter fraud investigation into the 2020 presidential election, the results of which may soon start coming out, Breitbart News has learned exclusively.

A document that the group’s founder Catherine Engelbrecht circulated to prospective donors, obtained by Breitbart News, details several facets of the investigation—which centers on what the group describes as the collection of cell phone GPS ping data in key election hotspots around the country including Georgia, Arizona, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Michigan.

When reached and asked to comment on the forthcoming investigation, Engelbrecht confirmed the authenticity of the document and its contents but declined further comment at this time.

The document says that True The Vote has spent the last several months since late last year collecting more than 27 terabytes of geospatial and temporal data—a total of 10 trillion cell phone pings—between Oct. 1 and Nov. 6 in targeted areas in Georgia, Arizona, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Texas. The data includes geofenced points of interest like ballot dropbox locations, as well as UPS stores and select government, commercial, and non-governmental organization (NGO) facilities.

“From this we have thus far developed precise patterns of life for 242 suspected ballot traffickers in Georgia and 202 traffickers in Arizona,” True The Vote’s document says. “According to the data, each trafficker went to an average of 23 ballot dropboxes.”

In other words, what the document says is that True The Vote was able to take cell phone ping data on a mass wide scale and piece together that several people—suspected ballot harvesters—were making multiple trips to multiple drop boxes, raising potential legal questions in a number of these states.