“No bombs were found, and law enforcement agencies did not identify possible motives. But the threats weigh heavily on many, particularly given the emotional attachment and deep loyalty many students, faculty, staff and alumni feel for the campuses — a haven, a calling, a family,” it added.

Howard University was among the list of HBCUs to receive a bomb threat on Monday.

“We’ve had these challenges before,” Howard University President Wayne Frederick said Tuesday, according to CNN. But “since I’ve been here (as a student) in 1988, it has not been this widespread and also, I think, this overt.”

The campus released a shelter in place directive in the early morning hours of Monday. The shelter was lifted following an investigation by the Metropolitan Police Deapartment.

“Our Historically Black Colleges & Universities have again been targets of disturbing threats. My team will continue to work with students, faculty, and alumni to make sure HBCUs continue to be a safe place for students to learn. Threats of violence will not be tolerated, period,” Cardona wrote.

The threats were not the first to target the nation’s HBCUs. Eight schools were threatened on January 4 to being the year, according to the Post’s report. For Howard University, the threat marked the third incident this year.

Fort Valley State University in Georgia shut down operations on its campus on Monday following a bomb threat.

“Campus is currently on lockdown. Residential students remain in dorms. Non-residential students and staff should NOT report to campus until further notice. Campus operations are suspended for the day,” the university tweeted Monday morning.

Morgan State University in Baltimore was also among the HBCUs threatened.

“Due to a bomb threat, access to campus will be closed as the University works with emergency personnel to assess the situation. Everyone on campus should shelter in place until further notice,” the school stated Monday morning.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.