Actor Kevin James offered support to popular podcast host Joe Rogan over the weekend, as countless celebrities and media figures work to de-platform “The Joe Rogan Experience.”

“Joe – we go way back and all these years I’ve known you to be nothing but objective and seeking truth,” James commented on a video Rogan made concerning the backlash to his podcast. “Thank you. Love you brother.”

In the video commented on by James, Rogan addressed calls for his show to be censored.

“The podcast has been accused of spreading ‘dangerous misinformation,” Rogan said. “The problem I have with the term ‘misinformation,’ especially today, is that many of the things that we thought of as ‘misinformation’ just a short while ago are now accepted as fact.”

“For instance, eight months ago, if you said, ‘if you get vaccinated, you can still catch COVID and you can still spread COVID,’ you’d be removed from social media, they would they would ban you from certain platforms. Now, that’s accepted as fact,” he explained. “If you said, I don’t think cloth masks work, you would be banned from social media. Now that’s openly and repeatedly stated on CNN. If you said I think it’s possible that COVID-19 came from a lab, you’d be banned from many social media platforms – now that’s on the cover of Newsweek.”

Rogan went on to promise a more “balanced” approach to the show and noted of a disclaimer Spotify will be adding to “controversial” episodes.

“One of the things that Spotify wants to do, that I agree with, at the beginning of these controversial podcasts, like specifically ones about COVID … put a disclaimer and say that you should speak with your physician and that these people and the opinions that they express are contrary to the opinions of the consensus of experts, which I think is very important, sure, have that on there,” Rogan said.

Notably, at the start of the pandemic in May 2020, James made a short film mocking our hysterical response to COVID-19. The Daily Wire reported:

The short video, titled “Out of Touch,” shows James and another man running and hiding from police cars and helicopters. Before the chase ends, the video flashes to “Six Hours Earlier,” in which the manhunt is “explained.” James and the other man, a runner, are “caught” by nosy passersby exchanging a, gasp, handshake. With their masks on and cellphones in hands, James and runner are reported to the police for their coronavirus indiscretion. Staring at the narks, James tells the other man, “run,” before the short film ends. The video is a clear hit on the folks who are all too eager to call authorities on folks not appropriately “social distancing”; these people have been mockingly dubbed “Karens.”

The video has over 4.1 million views to date:

Related: What Joe Rogan Got Very Right In His Response To Spotify Drama — And The One Thing He Got Wrong

Related: ‘Joe Rogan Is The Media’s New Trump’: Efforts To Deplatform Rogan Podcast Grow, Defenders Rip Attacks

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.