The National Organization of Women is one of the leading “women’s rights” organizations with a stated goal, “Dedicated to its multi-issue and multi-strategy approach to women’s rights and is the largest organization of feminist grassroots activists in the United States.” What are those rights?

Their home page has a flashing banner of “reproductive rights” front and center, which can be assumed to mean abortion on demand, anytime from conception to birth and perhaps even beyond birth, a decision made solely by the mother, without any restriction by law, government, morality, or the aspirations of the soon to be destroyed little girl who might someday want to join the National Organization for Women.

NOW also supports racial justice, which includes men, the evil oppressors railed against by the more militant feminist organizations. Interestingly the public cases of supposed racial injustice mostly involve men, George Floyd, Michael Brown, Trayvon Martin, and others, some of whom ironically have a history of assaulting women. George Floyd, for example served, “Five years in prison in 2009 for aggravated assault stemming from a robbery in 2007 where he entered a woman’s home, pressed a gun into her stomach and searched the home for drugs and money.”

Yet he is a hero to the NOW gang who is defending and lionizing George Floyd, despite being an organization of women and Floyd a victimizer of women. While this seems ironic that NOW would support a brutish man who assaulted a woman, the transgender movement provides another look at hypocrisy on an even much larger scale when it comes to transgender athletes, specifically biologic males competing as females.

NOW has as one of its core issues, “LGBTQIA+ rights.” I must pause here for the benefit of myself and readers who are lost in the alphabet soup of wokeness. I understand LGBT, as did a gay New York Times writer who is similarly befuddled, “When I came out as gay more than 10 years ago, there were only four letters commonly used to group various sexual and gender minorities: L, G, B and T.”

The article explains the current lingo, at least for now until more letters are added to unending alphabetic litany of gender identities beyond male and female, which remarkably served humankind well until just a few years ago. Q is for questioning, I stands for intersex, A is for ally, and the + sign is to cover the 64 and counting other gender identities.

As to NOW’s core issue of LGBTQIA+ rights, “NOW is committed to fighting discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity in all areas including employment, housing, public accommodations, health services, child custody, and military policies.” There is no mention of athletics.

NOW’s recent news releases on this subject are about pride month, abortion, and the Equality Act. They say nothing about the big recent elephant in the room of transgenderism, biologic males competing as females in high school, college, and elite sports.

This story broke last fall and in brief involves a University of Pennsylvania swimmer named Will Thomas, an unremarkable member of the men’s team until COVID put college sports and the rest of life on hold. During his year off, Will became Lia, and is now a member of the Penn women’s swim team, and while a mediocre men’s swimmer, is anything but as a women’s swimmer. “UPenn trans swimmer, 22, sparks outrage by smashing women’s competition records after competing as a man for three seasons.”

In November 2021, Thomas competed in a tri-meet between UPenn, Cornell, and Princeton, “where the senior ‘blasted’ UPenn records in the 200m and 500m freestyle – posting times that beat almost every other female swimmer across America.”