by Geoffrey Grinder, Now The End Begins:

Amid security concerns, Trudeau and his family have been moved from their home to an undisclosed location in the nation’s capital, sources said. A convoy of thousands of truckers and other protesters converged on Parliament Hill Saturday to call for an end to COVID-19 vaccine mandates and other public health restrictions — a raucous demonstration that has police on high alert for possible violence even as organizers urge the crowd to be peaceful. Hundreds of protesters on foot flooded into the parliamentary precinct on Saturday in the midst of an extreme cold warning, joining a lineup of truckers that started to arrive on the scene late Friday night.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family were moved from their residence to a secret location on Saturday due to the security risk posed by growing anti-vax protests in the capitol of Ottawa, CBC reports.

Canada is our sister nation to the North, and a lot of the time they take some heat because of the weak, liberal policies that govern their nation, and quite honestly they’re an easy target. That was then, but this is now, and the people of Canada are flexing some serious muscle as a convoy of 50,000 trucks converge on the nation’s capital to peacefully register their protests against vaccination mandates and immunity passports. Now this is what I call “to the fight!!!”, it is a thing of beauty, and it’s something we would do well to emulate here in America.

“Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city: for the LORD your God will deliver it into your hand.” Joshua 8:7 (KJB)

Justin Trudeau amazingly came down with COVID as the truckers began arriving, and was taken to a ‘safe location’ to isolate with the virus, that’s the official story. The actual story is that this far left liberal coward who loves to bully his people, wet his pants in fear and fled as fast as his detail could take him. All tyrants and dictators fear the uprising of the people as they know that eventually, at some point, the people will rise up and throw off the shackles of tyranny, In America, we did that back in 1776, and here in 2022 we are watching what true patriotism looks like. Please pray for our Canadian street preachers who are using this opportunity to preach the gospel of the grace of God, and hand out gospel tracts.

Justin Trudeau and his family have been moved from residence over security concerns

FROM CBC: A convoy of thousands of truckers and other protesters converged on Parliament Hill Saturday to call for an end to COVID-19 vaccine mandates and other public health restrictions — a raucous demonstration that has police on high alert for possible violence even as organizers urge the crowd to be peaceful.

Hundreds of protesters on foot flooded into the parliamentary precinct on Saturday in the midst of an extreme cold warning, joining a lineup of truckers that started to arrive on the scene late Friday night. They were later joined by other drivers and demonstrators from all regions of the country that, in some cases, travelled thousands of kilometres to take their message to the streets outside of the Prime Minister’s Office in the downtown core.

Police said as many as 10,000 people were expected to be on hand by day’s end, but by Saturday evening the force did not have an official estimate of the crowd’s size. Also that evening, the group organizing the convoy sent out a schedule for Sunday events, including a prayer and press conference.