You probably remember when Soros financed Secretary of State Jena Griswald illegally ordered county clerks to destroy all voting records, even though by state law it is required that information be saved for 25 months. Mesa County Clerk Ms. Tina Peters did destroy the information from the machines but made a copy before she did. Griswald has since tried to make her life miserable, including threatening to prosecute her.

Since then, Colorado citizens have filed a lawsuit against radical Secretary of State over the destroyed records. Hanks et al v. Griswold was filed in Denver District Court. The most damning facts of the case claim that Griswald and her employees destroyed the election records for 2020. They are seeking a full independent forensic audit for the entire state.

“The Federal Election Commission’s 2002 Voting System Standards, which are a mandatory standard for Colorado voting systems, require voting systems to maintain and produce ‘all audit trail information,’ including operating system and hardware. The Department of Justice has already confirmed that digital records ARE election records. The federal and state statutes that require preservation of election records were written for the EXACT purpose of ensuring the availability of records EXACTLY like the those destroyed by the Secretary of State.”

In an affidavit signed by Clerk Schroeder, he explains his actions: “I was told that there was evidence that the ‘trusted build’ process that was performed on Mesa County’s Dominion voting system during May of 2021, had erased electronic files that were part of the 2020 election records. This information was concerning, because I have a legal duty to retain election records for 25 months after every election. The purpose of retaining the records is so that a proper audit of an election can be performed. I was concerned that the ‘trusted build’ process might erase electronic election records from the Elbert County elections systems, which would violate state law.”

Is anyone ever going to do anything about this lawless Secretary of State? And will voters ever wise up and quit voting for Soros-backed candidates?