A majority of voters believe President Joe Biden will “be remembered as one of the worst presidents in American history,” just one year into his first term.

Rasmussen Reports published the results of its national telephone and online survey on Wednesday showing that a majority of voters believe Biden to be one of the worst presidents in American history, more than either one of Biden’s last two predecessors. The survey, commissioned by The National Pulse, was conducted on January 30-31 and based on the responses of 1,000 U.S. likely voters. The poll has a margin of error of 3 points.

The survey asked respondents how they believed the presidencies of Barack Obama, Donald Trump, and Joe Biden would be remembered, from one of the best to one of the worst.

Biden had the highest negative ranking of the group by far, with 54% of respondents saying that the sitting president will be remembered as one of the worst to hold his office. Just 15% of respondents said that Biden will be remembered as one of the best, and 25% said Biden will be remembered as average.

Trump had the next highest negative score, but he also had the highest positive score of the group, reflecting a polarized public opinion about the 45th president, with few people in the middle. Trump was voted one of the best presidents by 41% of respondents and one of the worst by 42%. Just 12% of respondents said that Trump will be remembered as an average president.

Obama’s numbers were split almost evenly among the three choices, with 34% of respondents saying he will be remembered as one of the best presidents, 33% saying he will be remembered as one of the worst, and 30% saying he will be remembered as an average president.

Predictably, Biden did the worst among Republican likely voters, 74% of whom said the sitting president will be remembered as one of the worst in American history. Biden’s negative perception among Democrats, 28%, was more than twice as high as that of Obama, 13%. Among independents, 62% believe that Biden will be remembered as one of the worst presidents in history compared to 42% for Trump and 33% for Obama.

Biden’s approval ratings have plummeted in recent months, with poll after poll finding that Biden is seen negatively by over half of voters. As The Daily Wire reported last month:

According to new polls from Pew Research, Gallup, NBC News, and Harvard/CAPS, President Joe Biden’s disapproval rating has risen steadily over his first year in office. In each poll, at least 53% of the country “disapproved” of the overall job the 46th president is doing. All three polls were taken within the last month. “Joe Biden began his presidency with positive job ratings and broad public confidence in his ability to deal with a number of major challenges – particularly the public health impact of the coronavirus,” Pew noted. “He starts his second year with diminished job approval and majorities expressing little or no confidence in him on many of these same issues, the coronavirus included.”

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.