“The View” glossed over longtime co-host Whoopi Goldberg’s suspension during Wednesday’s broadcast, giving it only a cursory mention before pivoting to attack Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.

“You all saw the news. Whoopi will be back in two weeks. Ok,” Joy Behar said before moving on to the first topic.

Behar immediately pivoted then to suggest that Justice Gorsuch was engaging in partisan political activity because he planned to speak at an event hosted by The Federalist Society.

“The Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch is hanging out with a who’s who of conservatives this weekend when he speaks at an event for The Federalist Society. Other speakers are former VP Mike Pence, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and former Trump press secretary Kayleigh McEnany,” Behar began. “One item on the docket is a talk titled ‘The End of Roe v. Wade?’ and it’s being moderated by a Trump-appointed federal judge. Now, also you should know that the media is barred from the event. My question to you ladies is should a Supreme Court justice be involved in such a partisan group of people? Is that kosher? I don’t know the rules.”

Co-host Sara Haines said that the idea concerned her slightly, especially given the current political climate — along with the fact that recent polling indicates that more Americans than ever have begun to view the court itself as a “political institution.”

“How do you think conservatives would like it if Sonia Sotomayor went to a Planned Parenthood rally?” Behar interjected.

“They would have a significant issue with it,” said Sunny Hostin, a former federal prosecutor herself. She went on to note that while the members of the Supreme Court were not bound by the same ethical guidelines as many federal judges, they did “look to it for guidance” – and often, if they spoke outside their decisions, chose to give in-depth interviews rather than speaking off the cuff.

“There’s a lot of parts of this that are problematic. And, you know, it’s interesting because Stephen Breyer was such – who is retiring now. He was such a Supreme Court institutionalist, to Sunny’s point. There were certain protocols you really never crossed. One of them was to not get yourself involved in partisan events like that. I’m sure he’s frowning on that,” guest co-host Tara Setmayer added.

The Federalist Society, according to the organization’s website, “is an organization of 60,000 lawyers, law students, scholars, and other individuals who believe and trust that individual citizens can make the best choices for themselves and society. It was founded in 1982 by a group of law students interested in making sure that the principles of limited government embodied in our Constitution receive a fair hearing.”

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.