Adele’s fans who dropped hundreds of dollars on tickets are still not over the singer canceling her Las Vegas residency at the last minute. The Grammy-award winning singer just shared to Instagram that she’d be performing at the BRIT Awards ceremony next week and it did not go over well.

“Hiya, so I’m really happy to say that I am performing at the Brits next week!! Anddddd I’ll also be popping in to see Graham for a chat on the couch while I’m in town too! I’m looking forward to it! Oh, and Rich sends his love ♥️,” Adele shared on Instagram.

The last line referenced rumors that she and boyfriend Rich Paul were experiencing relationship troubles and possibly even breaking up.

Fans reacted to the performance announcement in different ways. While many were excited to hear Adele was coming back to the spotlight plus happy to see her looking so joyful in the accompanying Instagram photo, others were indignant that she hadn’t mentioned rescheduling the Vegas shows yet.

“Can you please just announce the Vegas weekend cancel so we can have our money back?” one Instagram follower pleaded. As of now, ticket holders are being told their tickets will be honored when the show is rescheduled.

“What about all of us that are still waiting over here with our Vegas tickets that we can’t get a refund on and can’t resell because you haven’t set a date,” another person wrote. “Please @adele figure out what you are doing for the sake of all your fans that are sitting on thousands of worthless hotel, airfare, and tickets.”

Several fans were even snarkier with their reactions.

“That’s awesome. Will you cancel two hours before?” another commenter wrote sarcastically.

“So happy you’re not screwing over the show so you can claim your awards; just still screwing over us fans who bought tix to Vegas. Seems fine,” another follower agreed.

Previously, Adele tearfully shared a video message with fans hours before her first show in Las Vegas was supposed to start, explaining that due to COVID infections among the crew plus delivery delays, she was being forced to postpone the shows until a later date.

“I’m so sorry but my show ain’t ready,” she said at the time. “Half my crew, half my team is down with Covid. They still are, and it’s been impossible to finish the show. And I can’t give you what I have right now, and I’m gutted.”

Fans were devastated. Then rumors started circulating that Adele’s “diva” demands, including an entirely new sound system to replace the state-of-the-art equipment the venue already had, likely contributed to the cancellation.

Adele disappeared to Paul’s estate immediately following the announcement. Shortly after, news broke that her rocky relationship with Paul may have contributed to the cancellation. Page Six reported that a source recounted the drama.

“Adele’s been crying and couldn’t get through a single full rehearsal for the past month,” the source, who was linked to the management team at Caesars Palace, told the publication. “Just constantly on the phone with Rich … loudly shouting and sobbing.”

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.