Just hours after CNN chief Jeff Zucker announced his resignation, Warner Media CEO Jason Kilar named three executives to serve as “co-heads” while the network sorted things out in Zucker’s absence.

Kilar sent a memo to staffers, a copy of which was obtained and published by Mediaite:

We are fortunate to have three senior leaders within the News organization who have agreed to serve as interim co-heads for CNN beginning today through what you should anticipate will be through the close of the pending transaction with Discovery. These leaders are Michael Bass, Amy Entelis and Ken Jautz. I have full confidence that Michael, Amy and Ken, as interim heads for News, will provide the leadership this organization needs during this time of transition. Lenny Daniels will continue to serve as President and lead Turner Sports & Bleacher Report. Patrick Crumb will continue as President and head of the regional sports networks. You will hear more from Michael, Amy, Ken, Lenny, and Patrick in the coming days but I wanted you to be aware of these decisions that have been made.

As per Kilar’s memo, Michael Bass, Amy Entelis, and Ken Jautz will serve as “co-heads” while already ongoing investigations continued and the network searches for a new leader to replace Zucker.

CNN staffers — and others — were reportedly “stunned” when Zucker announced his resignation on Wednesday, saying that he had failed to disclose a consensual relationship with a colleague when he should have.

“As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo’s tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years,” Zucker told employees in a memo. “I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn’t. I was wrong. As a result, I am resigning today,” Zucker’s statement read.

Ensuing reports indicated that the colleague in question — Allison Gollust, CNN’s chief marketing officer — had close ties with disgraced former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo (D). She is reportedly staying at CNN.

“Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years. Recently, our relationship changed during COVID. I regret that we didn’t disclose it at the right time,” Gollust said in a statement released Wednesday. “I’m incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do everyday.”

Zucker, who had previously worked for NBC, took over CNN in 2013 — and Gollust was reportedly part of his leadership team from the beginning.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.