In November 2020, in Houston, Texas, at 1:30 in the afternoon, Heriberto Fuerte-Padilla, an illegal alien, was driving drunk when he crashed into a vehicle driven by 19-year-old Adrienne Sophia Exum. The young lady was hit so hard she was ejected from her car and killed.

Sgt. Aric Albers with the Harris County Sheriff’s Office said Exum was hit by a driver in a Dodge pickup truck and was later identified as Heriberto Fuerte-Padilla.

“[She was] ejected out of the vehicle into the roadway,” Albers said. “Her head struck the roadway and she sustained a significant injury where she ended up dying on the scene.”

As reported by The Daily Mail:

An illegal immigrant accused of killing a woman in a hit-and-run car crash in Texas in November 2020 is no longer facing deportation after Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas changed rules to lower the number of removals. Heriberto Fuerte-Padilla was driving drunk in November 2020 when he caused a car crash, killing 19-year-old Adrienne Sophia. The accused tried to flee the scene but was caught by police. While the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) initially wanted authorities to deport Fuerte-Padilla after Texas issued its punishment, the federal agency changed its mind because the individual does not qualify for priority deportation under Mayorkas’ new rules issued in September 2021. Under Mayorkas’ recently updated rules, according to The Washington Times, many deportation requests were canceled for illegal immigrants who are accused, charged, pleaded guilty to felony charges of evading arrest or even those who have already been convicted of drunk driving, drug possession or domestic assault. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) told Texas that these detainers – or requests for deportation – are no longer considered ‘priority lifts’, indicating they aren’t seen as important targets under Mayorkas’ rules. Mayorkas developed the new rules so the two major immigration enforcement agencies, ICE and Customs and Border Protection (CBP), have to give a break to those illegal immigrants with less severe criminal records.

Sophia’s mother, Rhonda Exum, is trying to find answers. She said she was never informed about the decision to rescind Fuerte-Padilla’s deportation. In fact, she said she was told the man who killed her daughter was going to be deported.

“I really want to know why,” Exum said on “Fox & Friends First,” on Tuesday.

“By him not being deported, it’s like you telling me my daughter’s life didn’t mean anything.”

Exum, who admits she voted for Joe Biden in the 2020 election, said she’s disappointed.

“I thought he was going to talk for the American people, basically, and not for himself,” she said. “I don’t feel that he has done anything but disappoint.”

Regarding the Biden administration’s updated immigration enforcement policies, the utterly worthless DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said in a statement, “For the first time, our guidelines will, in the pursuit of public safety, require an assessment of the individual and take into account the totality of the facts and circumstances.”

Really? The facts are he drove drunk, hit a vehicle, and killed an American citizen. The circumstances are, the Biden administration allowed him, and 2 million other illegal aliens, to remain in the country for political reasons. Those are your facts and circumstances.

Ken Paxton, the Texas Attorney General, responded to Mayorkas’s statement saying it “doesn’t matter” to the administration that an illegal immigrant killed Adrienne Exum.

“I believe that Biden has betrayed our country. He’s betraying families that are losing people right and left,” Paxton said. “I think the answer to the ‘why?’ is that they have greater goals that are more important than saving members of families.”

I believe those goals are to get as many illegal aliens as possible into the country and give them some sort of amnesty overnight. Maybe not a full amnesty but a special brew of amnesty that will allow them to vote in the 2022 midterm elections. If it were known that illegal aliens from south of the border overwhelmingly voted Republican, the Democrats would be catapulting them across the Rio Grande river 24/7.