Leftist Whoopi Goldberg is reportedly furious that she was suspended from ABC’s “The View” over highly controversial remarks that she made about the Holocaust and is telling people that she is going to quit.

Kim Godwin, president of ABC News, said that Goldberg would be suspended “her wrong and hurtful comments” about the Holocaust, which included her repeatedly falsely claiming that the Holocaust was “not about race.”

“While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments,” Godwin said. “The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities.”

The New York Post reported that a source, described as a well-placed insider, told the newspaper that Goldberg is “livid” and feels “humiliated” over the suspension.

“She feels ABC executives mishandled this. She followed their playbook. She went on ‘The Late Show With Steven Colbert’ and then apologized again on ‘The View’ the next day,” the source told the Post. “Her ego has been hurt and she’s telling people she’s going to quit. Suspension from ‘The View’ is like getting suspended from Bravo. The bar is very low.”

Prior to her suspension, sources that spoke with Page Six said that employees and executives at the company, including insiders at Disney, were furious over her remarks and the fact that she had not been disciplined yet.

“If we’re going to do this, let’s be truthful about it because the Holocaust isn’t about race. No. It’s not about race,” Goldberg said. “It’s not about race. It’s not about race.”

One insider told Page Six that the controversy was not “just going to blow over.”

“ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction. The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s–t,’” the ABC insider said. “Why does Whoopi seemingly get a pass when others don’t? Perhaps this time she won’t. Many at the network — including her fellow hosts — believe Whoopi is too controversial now for the show.”

“This will cast a shadow over everything for a while. Even Joy Behar was heard saying backstage that Whoopi is ‘dead wrong’ and may not ever recover from this,” the source said. “Joy found this particularly troubling and couldn’t believe Whoopi wouldn’t stand corrected until she was forced.”

Staffers were “incredulous” and have been heard making statements like, “How stoned can she be?”

The report said that insiders are “insisting that her apology isn’t enough and demanding that she be fired.”
• 88-Year-Old Holocaust Survivor Challenges ‘The View’ After Whoopi’s Comments: Put Me On The Show
• ‘It’s Insidious’: Ben Shapiro Breaks Down How Whoopi Goldberg’s Holocaust Comments ‘Cover’ For Anti-Semitism
• Whoopi Goldberg’s Co-Hosts ‘Furious’ At ABC For Suspending Her: Report

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.