The drug manufacturer Johnson & Johnson and the opioid distributors AmerisourceBergen, McKesson and Cardinal Health will pay Native American tribes $590 million under the terms of a proposed settlement filed Tuesday.

Native American tribes have reached settlements over the toll of opioids totaling 590 million dollars with drugmaker Johnson & Johnson and the country’s three largest drug distribution companies, according to a court filing made Tuesday.

The filing in U.S. District Court in Cleveland lays out the broad terms of the settlements with Johnson & Johnson and distribution companies Amerisource Bergen, Cardinal Health and McKesson. Some details are still being hashed out.

All federally recognized tribes in the U.S. will be able to participate in the settlements, even if they did not sue over opioids. And there could be settlements between other firms in the industry and tribes, many of which have been hit hard by the overdose crisis.

W. Ron Allen, chair of the Jamestown K’Klallam Tribe in Sequim, Washington, called it a big deal for tribes to reach their own settlement, in contrast with tobacco industry deals in the 1990s that left out Native American groups.

Allen doesn’t expect his tribe of about 550 people to get much from the settlement, but it will help in its efforts to build a healing center that will address opioid addiction, he said.

“Every penny counts, so we’ll take it and run with it,” he said.

One study cited in the settlement found that Native Americans have had the highest per capita rate of opioid overdose of any population group in 2015.

The payouts reduce the overall profitability of the firms. In the markets, investors must determine if he firms have the wherewithal to sustain losses against the revenues of profitable safe products available to the general public or that will soon be available. As well, branding and reputations are at risk

For the addicted and their families, there is some vindication and support made available.

For the consumer, there is information made available of risks and threats that can be easily researched. No longer does the individual need solely rely on the physician’s recommendation.

The plaintiffs in the case are more than 400 tribes who say the opioid makers and distributors were responsible for the opioid crisis in their communities and say they’ve faced increased costs in health care, social services, child care and more as a result.

“This is an historic settlement that goes a small but important distance toward addressing a killing epidemic that devastated tribal communities,” said Lloyd Miller, one of the lead tribal attorneys on the case who represents 120 tribes. “It is historic because at long last Tribes and States are standing shoulder to shoulder in addressing mass disasters.”

All 574 federally recognized tribes are eligible to receive part of the settlement, even if they did not participate in the litigation, the tribes’ lawyers say.

Johnson & Johnson said the proposed settlement is not an admission of liability or wrongdoing and that its marketing and promotion of opioids was “appropriate and responsible.” The company says it no longer sells prescription opioids in the U.S.