Democratic Senator Ben ray Lujan has suffered a stroke in his cerebellum and they had to operate on him as a precautionary measure. He is expected to make a full recovery, but no one has an idea how long it will take. It does not make the Republicans the majority party, but if they stick together Biden’s radical agenda is dead. That includes his Supreme Court pick.

Nothing can move through the Senate unless they can pick up one Republican vote. They need two Republicans to confirm a new justice for the Supreme Court because Harris cannot break a tie on that vote.

Lujan was feeling weak and dizzy and once he was taken to the hospital it was discovered that he had a stroke. He underwent decompressive surgery to ease the swelling. Lujan’s office refused to guess when the Senator will be able to return to the Senate.

His chief of staff, Carlos Sanchez said:

“He is currently being cared for at UNM Hospital, resting comfortably, and expected to make a full recovery. The Senator’s offices remain open and will continue providing constituent services to all New Mexicans without any interruption.”

“The Senator and his family would like to thank the wonderful doctors and staff at both UNM Hospital and Christus St. Vincent Regional Hospital for their excellent care during this time. Senator Luján looks forward to getting back to work for the people of New Mexico. At this time, he and his family would appreciate their privacy, and ask for your continued prayers and well wishes.”

Joe Biden has promised to nominate a replacement for Stephen Breyer by the end of the month, but without Lujan, he will have to pick someone who can draw votes from the Republican side. It will also hurt Schumer’s plan to restrict gun ownership. In an election year voting for gun control is a bad career move for Republicans.

Should Lujan be unable to return to work, the state’s governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (no relation) would appoint his replacement. The governor is a Democrat, and she would all but certainly appoint a Democrat to Lujan’s seat.

On Capitol Hill, news of the senator’s stroke sent shockwaves through both parties, and quickly raised questions about why it took five days for his office to disclose his condition.

Sen. Dick Durbin, the Democratic Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, had been unaware of Lujan’s stroke until reporters told him about it Tuesday afternoon.