Whoopi Goldberg, who used to claim she was a comedian, now co-host of ABC’s “The View,” has officially been suspended for her remarks about the Holocaust.

ABC News PR took to social media to make the announcement.

“Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments. While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments. The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends and communities.”

On Monday, Goldberg’s statements went viral after she made the argument that the Holocaust “isn’t about race.” The other co-hosts looked stunned by what Whoopi said.

“It’s about man’s inhumanity to man, that’s what it’s about,” Goldberg said.

Whoopi apparently thinks race is only about black people and other “people of color.” And why wouldn’t she? She lives in the progressive woke supremacy bubble that says race can only be about those two groups of people.

But how on God’s green and blue earth could she not understand that the Nazis based all of their hatred of the Jews on race?

In reality, the Nazis were obsessed with race. Nazis defined Jewish people as their racial inferiors, which is how they justified the horrors of the Holocaust.

For goodness’ sake, the Nazis targeted anyone with a Jewish grandparent. Whether the person identified as a Jew or not did not matter. If you had a drop of Jewish blood in you, they targeted you based on the Nazi bloodline doctrine of racial supremacy. The consequences of that doctrine resulted in the genocide of the Jews.

In Germany, the Nazis promoted the false assumption that glorified the German people as members of the “Aryan race,” while vilifying Jews because they were not of the so-called Aryan race.

Has Whoopi never heard of the term anti-Semitism? That word places Jews in a box as racial objects. An anti-Jewish German activist who set out to give his hatred of Jews a scientific “credibility” made the term popular.

“But it’s about a White supremacist going after Jews and Gypsies,” guest co-host Ana Navarro said.

“But these are two White groups of people,” Goldberg said.

Goldberg’s comments were denounced by Jewish groups, and she was accused of minimizing Jewish suffering.

The View co-host tried to explain her comments during an appearance on “The Late Show.”

“It upset a lot of people which was never, ever, ever, ever my intention… I thought we were having a discussion,” Goldberg told Stephen Colbert. “I think of race as being something that I can see… “You couldn’t tell who was Jewish. They had to delve deeply to figure it out… My point is, they had to do the work.”

In other words, she did herself no favors in that appearance.

She also told Colbert, “I don’t want to fake apologize…I’m very upset that people misunderstood what I was saying.”

The problem for Goldberg is people did not misunderstand what she was saying. She was pretty clear about it. She does not believe the Holocaust was about race and then entire thing was about race.

Before the pre-taped interview aired on CBS, Goldberg did give an apology.

“On today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’ I should have said it is about both,” Goldberg wrote in . “As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race.’ I stand corrected.”

“The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never [waver]. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused,” Goldberg added.

Remember, these are the same people who called Donald Trump an anti-Semite even though former Prime Minister at the time Benjamin Netanyahu said that Trump was the greatest friend of the Jewish people for the things he did to support Israel, and despite the fact that his daughter and her husband are Orthodox Jews and they are raising Trump’s grandchildren to be Jewish.