Has your candidate or federal representative signed The Daily Wire star Michael Knowles’ new two-part “pledge” directly taking on the Director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and White House medical advisor, Dr. Anthony Fauci?

If candidates sign “The Michael Knowles Federal Public Health Protection Pledge,” they will be promising voters that upon taking office, they will work to subpoena Fauci to investigate any possible corrupt actions taken by the public health servant with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic. Candidates who sign the pledge will also “sponsor and support legislation” that dwindles Fauci’s massive taxpayer-funded salary down to zero dollars per year.

“I created the Public Health Protection Pledge because Dr. Fauci has repeatedly proven himself to be dishonest and incompetent in his handling of public health policy,” Knowles told The Daily Wire.

“Over the past two years, Dr. Fauci has lied repeatedly to the American people and even to Congress about the COVID-19 pandemic. But his record of failure and scandal dates back to the 1980s, and he should have been fired long ago,” he added. “Congress does not have the power to fire Fauci, but they can defund him.”

Knowles borrowed the idea from the Taxpayer Protection Pledge – a pledge started by Americans for Tax Reform President Grover Norquist that candidates and officials sign promising to not raise taxes.

“It’s a simple pledge, and it’s simple enough to tell when a candidate breaks it,” Knowles explained. “The Public Health Protection Pledge is even simpler in that it requires only two votes: investigate Fauci and defund his salary.”

On Tuesday, Knowles shared his pledge via Twitter, saying, “I will not vote for any federal candidate in 2022 who does not promise to investigate and defund Dr. Fauci. And you shouldn’t either.”

“Tag your congressmen, senators, and candidates, and tell them to sign the Public Health Protection Pledge!” he added.

While only Republican candidates have signed on so far, Knowles told The Daily Wire that he hopes “Democrats sign the pledge—for the sake of the public health but also of their own careers.”

“Americans have had enough of Dr. Fauci’s lies, lack of judgment, and lust for power,” he continued. “A candidate’s refusal to sign the pledge is tantamount to an endorsement of the Fauci regime, which is something that I don’t think will play very well in Peoria.”

Fauci is the highest-paid U.S. bureaucrat and has 55 years worth of experience in the federal government. When he retires, he will receive more than $350,000 per year as part of his retirement packages, The Daily Wire noted in 2021.

“As director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Fauci earned $434,312 in 2020, the latest year available, up from $417,608 in 2019,” Forbes also added.

As The Daily Wire has reported, Fauci maintains that the COVID-19 pandemic occurred naturally and not via a lab leak.

Knowles’ pledge is specifically for the 2022 midterms when it is expected the Democratic Party will be taken to the woodshed and lose control of the House of Representatives to the GOP — meaning that candidates who signed Knowles’ pledge could have a real opportunity of turning it into a reality for Fauci.

As for what will happen if a candidate were to break the pledge, Knowles said, “If a candidate breaks the pledge, we’ll vote the bum out.”

The pledge reads as follows:

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.