Most people are shocked that “The View” moderator Whoopi Goldberg was reprimanded at all. The 66-year-old co-host is facing massive backlash after claiming the Holocaust was not about race during an episode of the show. Now ABC has suspended Goldberg for two weeks, but many are saying that punishment isn’t even close to appropriate.

For one thing, a suspension that’s temporary for such egregious comments only highlights the double standard in Hollywood. The Daily Wire’s Andrew Klavan reacted to the news with a suggestion to stop firing people for dumb comments in general.

“My feeling is: Don’t suspend @WhoopiGoldberg, simply put @ginacarano back in the @themandalorian and let @KevinHart4real host the Oscars and we’ll just call it… well, we’ll call it America,” Klavan tweeted.

Ben Shapiro responded, “Yeah, they’re not going to do any of that. So fire Whoopi. One standard.”

He also said in a separate tweet, “In a sane world, Whoopi wouldn’t be suspended. But the Left’s standard is that if you say a Bad Thing™ then you lose your job. So they should fire her. Mutually assured destruction until you stop with all of this nonsense.”

He wasn’t the only one demanding that the “View” co-host lose her job permanently.

“Why is it that Rosanne (a Jewish woman) gets canceled for off color remarks but Whoopi’s gets a total pass for antisemitism and downplaying the Holocaust? I can’t help but notice that only people on the right face consequences for their mistakes,” Donald Trump Jr. shared.

“Whoopi Goldberg shouldn’t be suspended, she should be fired,” one person said on Twitter.

“Roseanne: Fired over a tweet; Gina Carano: Fired over an Instagram post; Whoopi Goldberg: makes racist/anti-Semitic statements about the Holocaust and gets a slap on the wrist. Liberal privilege is real!”

Then there were some people celebrating that Goldberg got in trouble at all.

“Poetic Justice: Whoopi Goldberg (a woman who picked a fake Jewish last name for herself) getting suspended for a rant against Jewish people during the same week that she demands Joe Rogan’s censorship and removal,” Candace Owens shared. “God has a sense of a humor.”

There are rumors circulating that Goldberg could lose her job permanently after the suspension, but most followers are skeptical that would happen.

Sources that spoke with Page Six said that employees and executives at the company are “furious” over the incident and claim the suspension is only the beginning of Goldberg’s punishment,

An insider told the publication that the controversy wasn’t “just going to blow over.”

“ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction. The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s***,’” the ABC insider said. “Why does Whoopi seemingly get a pass when others don’t? Perhaps this time she won’t. Many at the network — including her fellow hosts — believe Whoopi is too controversial now for the show.”

No matter what happens, it seems this situation is far from over.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.