Facebook and GoFundMe Attack Freedom Trucker Convoy in Attempt to Derail Workers’ Uprising

The Big Tech monopoly platforms, Facebook and GoFundMe, have taken aim at the Canadian trucker convoy as the movement takes off and captivates the world.

After the pro-freedom convoy raised an astounding $10 million on the GoFundMe platform, they paused the donations, restricting the ability of organizers to raise funds, pending a review of whether or not the movement violates their nebulous terms of service.

Facebook also targeted the freedom convoy by deleting a group that was gaining steam hoping to replicate the Canadian efforts across the United States.

“They like to silence people that speak the truth,” said Jeremy Johnson, who set up the Facebook group, “Convoy to D.C. 2022,” that was arbitrarily removed from the platform.

Facebook used a familiar scapegoat, the QAnon movement, to justify the banning of the organizing group of truckers rising up to defend their freedom.

“We have removed this group for repeatedly violating our policies around QAnon,” Facebook’s parent group, Meta, told Fox News.

A co-organizer of the protest movement, Brian Brase, said while appearing on “Fox & Friends” on Wednesday that the characterization of the movement by Facebook is completely absurd.

“I have to laugh about that. Can they contact me or something? Can we talk? That’s not true,” Baase said. “They actually had offered the administrators to remove content and then request to review again. They didn’t even give that option.”

“They literally wiped Mike Landis and Jeremy completely out of Facebook,” he added. “They don’t even have a profile anymore, so how are you supposed to request a review or remove anything?”

Big League Politics reported on how the truckers’ movement for freedom that started in Canada is rapidly gaining steam across the globe:

“Freedom-loving humans all over the world are rallying behind the convoy of Freedom truckers making their way to Ottawa to defy leftist Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s Coronavirus tyranny. Trudeau’s government is mandating vaccine passports for truckers hauling goods into the United States despite the fact that thousands of Canadian truckers remain pureblooded, rejecting the Coronavirus vaccine. This protest also highlights how truckers supply goods to everyday people on the North American continent, which is being ravaged by manipulated supply chain shortages.

The convoy, which is now reportedly about 50,000 trucks strong and takes up about 45 miles of road space, is slated to arrive at Parliament Hill in the Canadian capital city of Ottawa on Saturday. Billionaire Elon Musk tweeted, “Canadian truckers rule.” A similar trucker uprising in Australia was proposed online not long ago. Will the success of the Canadian protest lead to more Freedom convoys elsewhere? Trudeau, for his part, sputtered, “The small fringe minority of people who are on their way to Ottawa who are holding unacceptable views that they are expressing do not represent the views of Canadians who have been there for each other, who know that following the science and stepping up to protect each other is the best way to continue to ensure our freedoms, our rights, our values, as a country.” Trudeau is reportedly going to be in isolation in his home when the truckers get there, because Trudeau claims to have been exposed to the ‘Rona virus though he tested negative.

The Canadian trucker convoy is especially timely for American freedom-lovers, because it overlaps with a recent surge in pro-Freedom activity in the United States. The hashtag #DonewithCovid took off in popularity. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and other truthers held a massive rally in Washington, D.C. to stop the draconian mandates inflicted upon the citizenry. Even leftist commentator Bill Maher expressed his increasing frustration with Coronavirus restrictions. If our neighbors up north are putting it all on the line to stop the authoritarian madness, it bodes well for the Freedom movement in America. And American patriots are showing support for the convoy.“

Facebook and GoFundMe are showing that Big Tech will never be on the side of the people. Nevertheless, the repression will just prove the point of the truckers that freedom is in fact under severe attack by the establishment.