Heartworm is a potentially fatal but curable disease that is caused by a parasite. The name of this parasite is Dirofilaria immitis. It is generally transmitted by Mosquitoes that carry the parasites’ larvae from the host animal to another.

This disease is quite prevalent in the Southern cities; however, according to a vector control agency warning, mosquitoes carrying dog heartworm were recently found in three Southern California cities. So, if you are a little surprised, worried, and want to know what this is and where it all started? You are not alone! We will share all the information through this article.

Heartworms can live in your dog for up to five years before they are found. Recently, the lab which tests mosquitoes, fleas, and other similar things countywide for West Nile virus and other transmissible diseases has lately added dog heartworm to their monitoring. Their study found mosquitoes carrying the potentially deadly parasite in at least three Orange County cities.

Three Southern California Cities That Are Suffering From Dog Heartworm

A recent survey found that the chances of dogs catching heartworm disease in Orange County have gone up because of the ‘Aedes aegypti’ variant of mosquitoes. This mosquito is generally called the “ankle biter.” Several mosquitoes of this species were recently found positive for dog heartworm in Fullerton, Seal Beach, and Huntington Beach.

However, steps were taken to eradicate them to the extent possible. As per recent research, after testing 260 samples, 4 of them were positive for dog heartworm. The above statement indicates that there are a few heartworm-positive dogs in the community, but it also tells us that it could be of low risk based on what we know from this data. There was not a single heartworm-free state across the US in 2019, as per the American Heartworm Society . However, things are under much control now.

Southern California has a significant pain point: the region has become home to ankle-biter mosquitoes that can spread heartworm to your dog with just one bite.

Many dogs don't show any signs early on, but once these heartworms set up a camp in the host's heart, lungs, and blood vessels then we can see certain symptoms in our dog.

These symptoms include exhaustion after exercise, mild cough, tiredness, weight loss, a swollen belly, and loss of appetite.

Baby heartworm larvae take some time to grow up, due to which dogs do not show symptoms quickly, but in the long run, the worms cause problems in the lungs and heart which can be very dangerous to our pet.

So, how can we prevent Aedes mosquitoes from growing?

Homeowners must keep standing water cleared away to limit the breeding sites of mosquitoes. Aedes is considered a “backyard breeder.” They can lay eggs in containers with only a little water. In such a scenario, prevention is the key solution.

Talk to your vet about heartworm preventatives for your pets, and get rid of still water to stop these mosquitoes from breeding. It’s the breeder’s responsibility to take an active role in checking for standing water. These mosquitoes typically come out in numbers starting in April, and the Aedes variant can be especially seen in October as well.

In most scenarios, heartworm illness may be diagnosed with one or more simple blood tests. Further diagnostic tests are frequently necessary for heartworm-positive dogs to evaluate if the dog can safely undergo heartworm disease therapy. Before beginning treatment, the following diagnostic tests are recommended:

Serological Test: Antigens of adult heartworms are detected via a serological test. A blood sample is used for this test.

X-Rays: Before starting therapy, X-rays are done in dogs with heartworm disease to determine the amount of heart and lung damage.

Blood tests: Before starting treatment of heartworm illness, blood tests are recommended to determine the existence of heartworm-associated organ damage.

There are several chewable medicines available in the market that can help you prevent your dog from testing heartworm positive. Heartgard is a widely acclaimed heartworm preventive medicine.

If you are wondering where to buy Heartgard for dogs , they are readily available at pet stores or online pet care stores. These medicines kill the microfilariae, larvae, and some young heartworms. But they do not affect adult heartworms, which makes prevention all the more necessary.

There are two recognized treatment protocols or methods to treat adult heartworm infestation: a 2-dose protocol and a 3-dose protocol. In both circumstances, the drug is administered through injection deep into the muscles of the dog's back. Around one-third of the dogs will have local discomfort, swelling, stiffness with movement, or, in rare cases, a sterile abscess at the injection sites. The 2-dose protocol consists of two doses separated by 24 hours.