The Maryland Defend the Guard Act is set for a hearing on Feb. 8. If you live in Maryland, you can help support the bill by taking a few simple steps.

Background: Del. Robin Grammer (R) introduced House Bill 273 (HB273) on Jan. 13. The legislation would prohibit the governor from releasing any unit or member of the Maryland National Guard into “active duty combat” unless Congress has passed an official declaration of war or has taken an official action under article I, § 8, clause 15 of the Constitution. You can read more about the legislation at this link.

A hearing on HB273 is scheduled in the House Health and Government Operations Committee for Feb. 8 at 3 p.m.

You can take the following actions to support HB273 in this important committee hearing.

3) Submit your written testimony here: Witness Signup . TIME SENSITIVE must be done on Friday, Feb. 4th between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m. You can choose to submit oral testimony as well, but it is not required. (instructions on that will follow)

4) Call the House Health and Government Operations Committee Members. Be firm, but respectful and professional. Ask them to please support HB 273 Defend the guard.

If you get any questions you are unsure about, just ask if you can call them back and refer them to Defendtheguard.us.

Michael Maharrey [send him email] is the Communications Director for the Tenth Amendment Center. He is from the original home of the Principles of ’98 – Kentucky and currently resides in northern Florida. See his blog archive here and his article archive here.He is the author of the book, Our Last Hope: Rediscovering the Lost Path to Liberty., and Constitution Owner’s Manual. You can visit his personal website at MichaelMaharrey.com and like him on Facebook HERE

Become a Patron!

 Or support us at SubscribeStar

 Donate cryptocurrency HERE

Subscribe to Activist Post for truth, peace, and freedom news. Follow us on Telegram, HIVE, Flote, Minds, MeWe, Twitter, Gab, What Really Happened and GETTR.



Provide, Protect and Profit from what’s coming! Get a free issue of Counter Markets today.