LOS ANGELES, CA – A violent 26-year-old child sex offender convicted of sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl will serve a two-year sentence in a Los Angeles County juvenile center thanks to the progressive policies of the L.A. County District Attorney.

James “Hannah” Tubbs,26, who now identifies as a transgender woman, pleaded guilty earlier this month to sexually assaulting a girl in a Denny’s bathroom in Palmdale, California, in 2014 when he was 17.

Tubbs identified as a male when he attacked the child on New Year’s Day in 2014, just before his 18th birthday. Prosecutors said he grabbed the girl by the throat and locked her in a bathroom stall. Tubbs then put his hands down her pants and sexually assaulted her. Tubbs continued the assault until someone else walked into the restroom.

The investigation into the child’s attack went public and the L.A. County Board of Supervisors issued a $20,000 reward for information leading to an arrest.

Despite the reward, Tubbs remained free and undetected until 2019, when a sample of his DNA was collected by authorities for a battery case in Idaho, according to Lt. Richard Ruiz of the L.A. County Sheriff’s Department’s Special Victims Bureau.

The DNA sample linked Tubbs to the sexual assault, and prosecutors filed charges in 2020, the same year Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascón took office.

Gascón has pushed a progressive agenda since entering office, and his “reforms” included refusing to permit juvenile offenders to be tried in adult courts. Tubbs, 26-years-old at the time of his arrest, he was only 17 when the crime was committed. Despite pleas from prosecutors and the judge, the DA refused to move the case to adult court.

Gascón defended his decision stating scientific data shows that adolescent brain development does not end until age 25, and that juvenile offenders can be rehabilitated. He went further, stating juvenile offenders serving time in adult prisons would only corrupt them further.

On Thursday, prosecutors argued in court for the judge to transfer the 26-year-old to an adult jail, saying in their opinion, the law gives the judge that authority.

“In crystal clear terminology provides this court with the authority to order a transfer of an individual to sheriff’s custody, or to a county jail facility, after that individual has turned 19 years of age.”

Los Angeles County Judge Mario Barrera on Thursday ordered Hannah Tubbs to serve two years in a juvenile facility after she pleaded guilty, saying the DA’s refusal to request the case be transferred to adult court tied his hands:

“This court will not disregard what the legislature has put onto it as a limitation.”

Lt. Ruiz said people should contact the DA’s office to oppose the DA’s policy:

“I would ask the public to reach out to Mr. Gascón and express their concerns and their outrage on a matter such as this involving a sexual predator.”

The LA County Sheriff’s office offered to house Tubbs in its county jail, but Judge Barrera “decided he did not have the authority to issue an order housing Tubbs in county jail or with the sheriff’s department,” according to Deputy District Attorney Shea Sanna.

Barrera criticized Gascón for the decision not to transfer the case to adult court, and allowing a child sex offender to be sentenced to juvenile court:

“I want to be clear. The filing of a transfer motion is entirely within the discretion of the district attorney.”

Kathryn Barger, chair of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, told Fox News that the sentence was unsatisfactory:

“Judge Barrera’s hands were tied today – due to the fact that the DA’s office failed to file a motion to transfer Tubbs to adult criminal court, which is where she rightly belongs. Instead, we’re left with a 26-year-old individual sentenced to two years in a juvenile facility in isolation, separated by sight and sound from the other juveniles.

“To carry out justice, all of the oars in the criminal justice system must be rowing in the same direction. Today, that simply didn’t happen.”

In a January 18 letter to Barger, Gascón acknowledged that Tubbs would have to be housed in a juvenile facility under his policies:

“I am shocked and outraged that she evaded capture for so long. The harm that she caused is irreparable. Tubbs has been ‘sentenced’ to our county’s secure treatment facility for youth (STFY).

“(The location) has yet to be approved.”

The Los Angeles Times reported Gascón was concerned about the offender’s treatment in an adult prison, writing:

“The district attorney also expressed concern that Tubbs herself would be victimized if placed in an adult facility as a transgender woman and noted a probation report actually recommended Tubbs be sentenced to home confinement. Instead, Gascón said, prosecutors asked for Tubbs to be kept in custody for two years where she could receive treatment and therapy.”

L.A. County Deputy District Attorney John McKinney said the DA’s policies will result in the sex offender being back on the street:

“What is happening is our district attorney is ushering him right out the door, back onto the streets of this county and God knows where else he might roam. It’s madness, it makes a mockery of our criminal justice system.

“The DA is trying to distance himself from this result and lay blame on the judge when in fact, it’s only happened because of his policy against transferring juvenile cases to adult court.

“Two years is a pathetic outcome for man who is a career criminal with felony convictions in multiple states and who committed forcible sexual assault on a 10-year-old girl in a Denny’s bathroom.”

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

Almost one year after taking office, far-left DA Gascon defends progressive criminal justice reform as violent crime spikes

LOS ANGELES, CA- On Wednesday, December 8th, Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascon marked the end of his first year in office by defending his progressive criminal justice reform efforts, claiming that he is not responsible for rising homicides and the recent smash-and-go robberies.

In an unprecedented move, district attorneys from other states such as Virginia and Massachusetts attended the press conference instead of local law enforcement and victims’ rights advocates.

Prosecutor Eric Siddall, vice president of the Association of Deputy District Attorneys, said in a statement:

“That tells us no other local leaders support the DA and his policies. Instead, he flew in other-like minded politicians from around the country who are also ushering in a new crime wave to their own cities.”

During the press conference, Gascon addressed the district attorneys from other states and the media, saying that the so-called “tough-on-crime approach failed.” He said:

“We are trying to dramatically change a system that has served no one, not the victims of crime, not those who are accused and not the public.”

When he took office in 2020, Gascon issued a special directive that prevents prosecutors in his office from seeking the death penalty, sentencing enhancements, or cash bail in non-violent cases.

That decision quickly drew widespread criticism as a policy that coddled criminals and ignored the victims.

As 2021 comes to an end, homicides, violent crimes and auto theft are rising and Gascon is facing a second recall. The most vocal critic is Sheriff Alex Villanueva, who told KTLA that “his approach has been god-awful. He authored Proposition 47 to reduce felonies to misdemeanors and now he doesn’t want to prosecute misdemeanors.” Villanueva added:

“It’s been an absolute disaster for the community. It’s been a disaster for public safety. It’s been a disaster for law enforcement.”

One of his own deputy district attorneys, John Hatami, has also been an outspoken critic of the new policies. He said:

“George Gascon’s policies have not worked. Releasing criminals not charging crime does not work in Los Angeles and it’s not making anybody any safer.”

On the same day that an 81-year-old woman was shot to death in a home invasion robbery, Gascon sent out a fundraising email decrying the use of sentencing enhancements, which are measures used to add prison time for violent crimes for a number of reasons, from gang affiliation to the use of guns.

In response, Gascon did not add a sentence enhancement to the charges against the woman’s killer, who had an extensive criminal history and was released on parole in September.

Had an enhancement been utilized, the killer would have had 25 years added to his sentence.

Gascon states that sentence enhancements are disproportionately used against minorities.

But when looking at the horrific incident that happened to the 81-year-old woman, the question really becomes should that individual, a chronic offender, who tried to rob another house after shooting a woman to death, deserve a sentencing enhancement to keep him incarcerated and not out on the streets where he can harm others?

Yet, Gascon claims that his office is working to make the criminal justice system more efficient and more equitable. He said in a statement:

“We’re trying really hard to use the science that is currently available, the data that is currently available, to do our work. And I’m not going to be intimidated by political rhetoric.”

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.