SAN FRANCISCO, CA – A Vietnamese-American man beaten with a bat two years ago in San Francisco has filed suit against San Francisco’s District Attorney Chesa Boudin over the alleged mishandling of what he says was a racially motivated attack.

Anh Lê, 69, alleged that he was not consulted by the San Francisco District Attorney’s Office on a plea deal offered to a man who attacked him on Nov. 2, 2019, as he was walking through Chinatown, according to the lawsuit filed in federal court on Tuesday.

The lawsuit targets how the DA’s Office handled the violent attack on Lê. The plaintiff said the violence he endured at the hands of a father and son should have been a hate crime but was pleaded down to a misdemeanor assault.

At a press conference on Tuesday, Lê said:

“The San Francisco District Attorney’s Office allowed the adult male attacker to plead to a misdemeanor with one-year probation, restitution to the victim and a criminal protective order.

“They did this without consulting me, without any input from me at all, and in violation of my rights as a victim.”

Lê said he is not asking for money. Rather, he simply wants the courts to make San Francisco District Attorney’s Office to do its job by taking the rights of victims into account when considering plea deals.

The attack occurred in November 2019 outside a grocery store in Chinatown. Lê described the attack:

“I was suddenly and violently attacked by the adult male and his adolescent son brutally attacked me with a long baseball bat.”

The suspects were eventually arrested and faced a host of felony charges. But Lê says the district attorney’s office failed to pursue hate crime charges and allowed the charges to be pled down to misdemeanor battery.

Lê said the justice had not been served in his case:

“Although he was arrested for felony terroristic threats, felony elder abuse and battery because of the way my case has been handled by the San Francisco District Attorney’s Office justice has not been served.”

Quyen Ta, of the law firm King & Spalding, represents Lê and said the plaintiff wants the DA to protect the rights of victims:

“We are bringing this lawsuit, and this is the principal reason, I want to make very clear: on behalf of Mr. Lê and other Asian American victims to ensure that the District Attorney’s Office does its job.”

In a pointed response to the lawsuit, the DA’s Office contested Lê’s version of events. Instead of the violent beating claimed by Lê, the DA’s office claims that Lê had instead gotten his bike knocked over by the adult assailant, who uses a wheelchair.

When Lê confronted them about taking up space on the sidewalk, the assailant’s young son simply swung a plastic bat at Lê while the assailant himself made threats while holding a bottle.

The DA’s Office also pointed out that it was Boudin’s predecessor Suzy Loftus who filed the charges, and she chose not to prosecute it as a hate crime.

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.



 Additionally, the DA’s Office argued, there were no visible injuries on Lê in police photographs taken at the scene. In a release by the DA’s Office on Thursday also denied they had failed to keep Lê informed as the case made its way through the courts:

“In his lawsuit, Mr. Lê falsely asserted that our office settled the case without consulting him or receiving any input from him. This is not accurate. Mr. Lê and the advocate communicated many times, but for a period of weeks, Mr. Lê did not respond to repeated messages from the advocate.

“The advocate also specifically reached out to Mr. Lê before the case resolved and indicated that the case might resolve and that the assigned prosecutor wanted to discuss the potential resolution with him. Mr. Lê did not respond to repeated efforts to reach him about the potential resolution.”

Chief of the Victim Services Division, which was also named in the suit, Kasie Lee stated that the DA’s Office has purposely attempted to be sensitive to the Asian American community in light of attacks over the last year targeting that community, but that the present case needed to be clarified:

“Given the lawsuit’s significant mischaracterizations of the events in this case — which have understandably led many community members to be upset and undermines the trust between crime victims and their advocates — we believe it is important to share correct information about the underlying case and explain the work of our office and our victim advocate in this case.

“We also want to provide reassurance to victims that they will receive comprehensive services when working with our advocates. We will continue to do everything we can to support victims.”

Many Asian American community groups in the region question the DA’s Office and the statement by the Victim’s Services Division, stating that even if the DA’s version of the attack on Lê were true, historically Asian Americans have been pushed aside by the judicial system.

“In a ‘he said, she said’ sort of case like this, a lot of people here are remembering back to attacks they witnessed against Asian Americans in the past few years.

And what we have seen are violent attacks and confrontations. It’s not to say that the DA’s version is wrong. It’s just that, based on cases around here and what people have seen, what Lê said is familiar to many.

“And look, same day, the SFPD announced that Asian hate crimes have shot up 567%. And look what else is happening, with crime going up all over the city. Both crimes against Asians and crime in general going up actually forced us to create a neighborhood watch here.

The DA denying that the attack on Lê had been significant and not a hate crime seems to many like the DA not acknowledging that all this is going on. How can we trust that the DA saying that this wasn’t a big crime when we see so many each week?”

Ironically, during a press conference Tuesday, San Francisco Chief of Police Bill Scott announced a dramatic and steady increase in attacks against Asian Americans. The chief announced a 567% increase in such attacks in the city. The SFPD reports eight cases of Asian hate crimes in 2019, nine in 2020, and 60 in 2021.

“That is significant, that is concerning, and that is alarming.”

Mayor London Breed also commented on the rise:

“I’m heartbroken, I’m frustrated, I’m embarrassed, I’m angry about the violence that continues to impact many of the people who are part of our Asian community but especially our seniors.”

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.