"Following well thought out and well-honed traditions, his dream is a prison-grid global community. He loves to control. And 'Mandy' as he's known to those who know him best, is as sharp and dangerous as a stiletto. 



"It is Mandelson who has helped turn Europeans into serfs for Europe's banks. Europe is now reverting to a neo-feudalism structure with bankers as the overlords of their indentured citizenry. Britain, America and the rest of the world will go the same way. Kleptocratic politicians are merely vassals." 



You know what's coming. I've told you before. And because no one did anything, it stands to reason that what's coming is what you want. Economics, it's more important than politics. In America, the food shortages will be like nothing ever seen before. 



How do you reckon superannuation/pension funds are going, given the economic destruction of the lockdowns? When interest rates rise, any ideas on the consequences to economies sustained on inflation? Same everywhere that matters.

There will be no effective uprising and nothing and no one can stop us.

You've paid for the brutal criminality, needless suffering, myriad repressions and death being unleashed, so give yourselves credit. The vaccinated are the walking dead. Rest easy, as I do, in the knowledge that more is coming. 



The NWO is Chinese, so unless you're Chinese, you and yours missed out. You know that the Chinese don't use modifying rna vaccines, but old-fashioned protein-based ones, don't you?

I know my work will continue after my death, but before I go to walk with Satan, in His world and with His Bride, Baphomet; these individuals deserve more than I can give them.

Matthew Lawrence: Despite recent obstacles, his work will continue.

H.W. and G.T. Armstrong for showing the way and the Hillsong Church.





As I've stated, a huge economic crash is very, very close. After that, a theocratic, stratified, feudal world brutally enforced by technology. The Usher of Desecration walks amongst us and Vindex is coming. I've long recommended silver as silver is Satan's metal.

Finally, I want to thank you, the compliant filth for doing the right thing. 



Remember, 'the lord is my shepherd...' and like all good shepherds, eventually he leads you to your slaughter - because that's what shepherds do. 



Your deities are asleep, whilst ours are manifesting and still, you don't see. Satan loves you! And so do we.