You can take their guns, but you can’t take their horns! Truckers say the incessant cacophony of honking in Canada’s capital won’t stop until Trudeau “comes out of hiding” and drops the mandate.



The Canadian freedom trucker convoy has grown to epic proportions.

Tens of thousands of Canadian and American semi-trucks are blocking various crossing points along the border and filling the streets of Ottawa with the thunderous roar of their horns for at least 10 hours a day, while having dance parties with their fans all night!

Their goal is to drive politicians “out of hiding” (in their homes and offices) and to come meet them where the rubber hits the road.

When Presidents Trudeau and Biden said they couldn’t cross the border without a prick-passport, they decided no one would be crossing the border… until the mandates are dropped.

This is no small commitment as the truckers are camping out in negative-30-degree temperatures with little more than the gasoline in their trucks to keep them warm.

Restaurants and hotels offered the truckers free food and accommodations on their way to Ottawa… Now downtown churches are opening their doors to let them sleep and shower, while armies of volunteers set up outdoor kitchens to feed them (and the homeless while they’re at it).

The police came to arrest the hundreds of truckers blocking the border near Alberta, but retreated when they saw how many there were. Instead they decided to lock down the entire border town so no one could bring in food or water for the truckers camped out there (in other words starve them out).

A large crowd of them met in a local cafe there to discuss how long they could stick it out without food in the cold and voted to stay “as long as it takes.”

Meanwhile, in Ottawa, truckers are playing ice hockey in the streets to pass the time, while their supporters party at night.

In addition to providing meals, volunteers are also collecting garbage, shoveling snow, and carting in gas-cans of diesel keep the truckers warm.

In addition to the $10 million GoFundMe campaign, which provides food and fuel, another fund has been set up to pay the trucker’s parking tickets and legal fees for participating in the “illegal” protest.

And now truckers in Australia, Italy and the Netherlands are joining “The Great Honkening” in their capital cities too!

The freedom truckers worldwide are waging a new kind of warfare without guns, and we are winning! The more we pitch in, the longer these heroes can stand their ground and bring tyrannical governments to their knees.

Please support our independent journalism by buying two of the most important books of our time through the links below: