While getting to the gym is truly far more difficult than actually being there, one of the most satisfying benefits of a home treadmill is cutting out that commute.

It can be there when you need it and if you opt for a folding treadmill you can tuck it away when you don't. It's that simple.

Sports brands are constantly pushing innovation and your options don’t have to be restricted to LISS (Low Intensity Steady State Cardio) or endless long runs. If you’re looking to seriously advance your training and experience the same intensity and fun as you would in say a Barry’s Bootcamp class, these are the most sought after treadmills on the market that will help push you into that athlete mind-set.

Or at the very least keep you moving as you binge watch Netflix — whatever the method, just keep moving.

See below for our roundup of the best at-home treadmills to help get you back on track for 2022.

If you are looking to take up running seriously and wish to advance your technique and push your fitness to the next level, this treadmill is a worthy investment.

It's a modern machine with savvy features like the Energy saver button that lowers energy by 90 per cent when the machine is on but not in use.

It’s an impressive build too, the FlexDeck shock-absorption system helps to reduce joint impact, a massive bonus if you haven’t been running for years; the sudden impact through your foot can have painful repercussions and hinder your progress and this machine takes that into account for novices and pros alike.

The LCD screen is easy to navigate and the control pad is placed lower which feels much more intuitive.

The added iPod dock allows you to listen to your music while keeping it on charge at the same time — after all there’s nothing worse than a playlist cutting out mid stride and having to run to the sound of your own, panting breath.

This one gets a big green flag.

At the more advanced (with the price tags to match) end of the spectrum, check out the brand’s next level up T3 model (£2,695) or the Club Series+ Treadmill (£7,445)

Over the last few years, our homes have become many things - offices, restaurants and of course, gyms. That being said, we don’t all have the luxury for a dedicated room for our fitness equipment so Technogym has got us covered. The compact design has been crafted specifically to suit homes of all shapes and sizes. For those concerned about possible injuries from the high impact of running outdoors, this is the next best thing and complete with an adaptive surface that is easier on the joints.

Connect up to the brand’s app and you’ll be able to step your workouts up a few notches motivated by the enthusiastic trainers - there are over 450 sessions and new ones added all the time. When you choose the one to suit, the device is smart enough to automatically adjust speed and incline. There’s also an array of natural and urban landscapes from around the world so you can check out the tracks in that holiday destination that keeps getting cancelled. You can also change up the soundtrack and monitor your run with Biofeedback for close analysis of cadence, heartbeat, step length and deep dive into your running style.

Also available on Gym Equipment

If you're looking to replicate professional sports training in a safe, engaging and effective way at home this is the (albeit very expensive) machine for you.

The Skilmill is a non-motorised curved treadmill and is entirely powered by the user.

"The curved belt and self propelling nature engages more of your posterior chain allowing your glutes and hamstrings to work harder than they would on a traditional run of the mill treadmill.” says Tom Bliss, London’s leading Technogym trainer. Combining stamina, speed and agility training — many fans of the machine claim to feel double the burn. If you're looking for a new way to challenge yourself on a treadmill it doesn't get better than this.

No excuses here, this machine is designed for budding runners who aren’t looking to withstand the elements as well as for those who may lack the space for a traditional treadmill. Opti is on hand with this folding indoor device. Not your classic iteration, you power the machine with your movement instead of a motor so that it gets going as you begin to walk or run. There’s an incline of six per cent to mimic walking or running on the pavement and you’ll get all the feedback you need in terms of your speed, time, distance and calories lost. After your workout, fold it up and store it relatively compactly.

DKN has a reputation for creating great at home equipment that is incredibly smooth and quite. The EzRun Treadmill offers bang for your buck with a 1.75 horsepower and speeds of 12.4mph. There’s an incline range of 0 to 12 per cent and an almost limitless range of built-in programmes - 15 of which have been certified by a personal trainer as well as live action videos and the possibility to connect it to the app for your full stats.

The EnduRun Folding Treadmill is the more premium machine with top speeds of 13.7mph with a 0 to 15 per cent incline so no matter whether you are sprinting or hiking, there’s an option for you. There are more programmes and bluetooth module to allow it to be paired with a phone or tablet.

With Adidas and Reebok falling under the same mother umbrella, both renowned for enhancing and empowering runners worldwide with their innovative products, it seems a fitting buy to invest in a Reebok brand at-home treadmill. The design is not only extremely savvy and efficient with its own fold up feature, but it is also equipped with ONE series cushioning.

This particular feature divides up your running cycles into three different zones, all built into the running deck. They help to mimic one’s natural movement of the foot, not only improving efficiency and comfort but also preventing high-impact injury, which, if you’re looking to take up running for the long run is not something you want to battle with.

At just £300 it's a great bargain/sale offer and the best choice if you're not sure how much you will actually use the treadmill and don't want to over-invest.

There are so many Reebok treadmills at all different price points, so you’re bound to find the one that suits you best.

Also available at Very

Whether you are a passionate runner or on your way from coach to 5k, Horizon’s all-rounder model has got you covered to make achieving your fitness goals as seamless and easy as possible.

The sturdy machine is crafted from a heavy-gauge steel frame and is powered on through a motion sensor on the tread. The latter is composed of an innovative three part cushioning to give your muscles the support that it needs as you start to up your mileage. It is quiet and can be paired through bluetooth to your wireless headphones, heart rate devices or to the ViewFit app so you can monitor track your stats.

If you want a gym quality machine at home — and one that will last you many years — the is your best all-around option based on the combination excellent quality, user experience and price.

The is one of the best bargain options — they might not have the same heft as the Life Fitness F1 but you can find excellent features throughout and they are far better than the flimsy models found on discount websites.