New mayors like to pick their own deputies, and no one wants an adversary for a partner. Last summer, though, after Eric Adams won the Democratic primary, he told the local news channel PIX11 that he was not planning to replace every commissioner and mentioned Banks’s work. When Adams won the election, a person “close to the Adams campaign and transition” told the news organization City Limits that it was a “done deal” that Banks would continue in his role. “Even if you don’t like him, you have to keep him on,” the person said. (The Adams administration and Banks declined to comment.) But Banks decided to get out. In November he announced that he would lead the pro bono practice at the law firm Paul, Weiss, which litigates public-interest cases nationwide. Adams promoted the administrator of the Human Resources Administration, Gary Jenkins, who had worked for Banks.

The mayors that Banks fought at Legal Aid would argue that they couldn’t end homelessness without a state and federal government willing to help. They may have been right in a very narrow sense, but they were wrong where it counted. “If you want to end homelessness, you need the other two levels of government working with you rather than against you,” Banks said. “But that doesn’t let the city off the hook.” The de Blasio administration was the first in 40 years to have fewer people in shelter on its last day than on its first. “We’ve shown what the city can do with a social-service response,” Banks said. He has also shown, he says, how beholden the Department of Social Services is to other systems that create the need for shelter. The cost of their failures appear in the shelter budget.

“When we brought McCain,” Banks said, referring to the right-to-shelter case he argued for nearly three decades, “we couldn’t make a claim for permanent housing because all of the case law said there wasn’t a right to permanent housing.” The right to shelter was the limit to what the law would allow. The language in the state constitution that anchors it is vague — it says little more than that “the aid, care and support of the needy are public concerns, and shall be provided by the state” — and had lay dormant for nearly 50 years. “What brought it to life,” Banks said, “was modern mass homelessness.” New Yorkers were freezing to death in the streets or losing limbs to hypothermia, and Banks and his colleagues thought that the social circumstances should change the way that the courts interpreted the law. Their work, eventually, showed that they were right.

Over the past two years, our social circumstances have been reordered again. A pandemic still not under control has been shown to spread more rapidly in overcrowded housing. “Is that not a ‘public concern’?” Banks asked. Additionally, he said, “federal law already provides a right to housing assistance — if you own your home.” There are tax deductions available to mortgage holders and a suite of subsidies open to homeowners. The path to prosperity in America — to the kind of wealth that can be passed from one generation to the next — runs through housing, and for the bulk of the last century, it also ran through discriminatory policies, like redlining and segregation, that governed homeownership. This means it has also been a way for intergenerational wealth to be denied. Yet the tax code continues to reward homeowners and ignore renters. “We’re at a moment of racial reckoning,” Banks said. “Isn’t there an argument to be made that now is the time to undo the impact of current law that provides a right to housing assistance if you own your home, but not if you don’t?”

The moral argument for a right to housing, cynics might say, remains naïve; it has always been too idealistic to catch on widely. But the grounds for a legal argument may have just taken shape, and Banks has made a career of moral arguments spoken through the language of the law.

“Let me put it this way,” Banks said. “I look forward to returning to the practice of law, and it would be a great case to bring.”

Alex Carp is a research editor for the magazine. He has written for The New Yorker, The New York Review of Books online and The Believer. Ahmed Gaber is a photographer who works to capture stories of everyday people and experiences. Originally working in his homeland, Egypt, he now lives and works in New York.