Contributing to further transparency of the Parliament of Montenegro and in order to widen its national and international outreach, the OSCE Mission to Montenegro provided conference equipment for simultaneous interpretation on 2 February 2022 in Podgorica.

After handing over the equipment to Aleksa Bečić, Speaker of Parliament, Dominique Waag, Head of the OSCE Mission to Montenegro, said that the Parliament is one of the Mission’s key partners and thanks to this strong partnership, a number of significant projects have been implemented.

“Last year, 121 MPs and staff members participated in various workshops. The results of our mutual co-operation are clear: the Parliament is more transparent and can conduct its work virtually. Its staff have new skills and it became a more gender sensitive institution,” said Waag.

She said that with the equipment the Mission delivered, the Parliament will be able to reach a wider audience by providing interpretation to visiting delegations, foreign political representatives and international participants. “The mobile equipment will provide simultaneous interpretations at conferences in the parliament in Cetinje, as well as for events in Villa Gorica and in other locations, and will facilitate participation of MPs and their teams in international summits and meetings,” said Waag.

Bečić expressed her gratitude to Ambassador Wag for the overall assistance the OSCE, an important strategic partner in strengthening peace, democracy and security in the region, has provided to Montenegro in implementing reforms and further strengthening democratic development.

“In a year and a half, we have further strengthened the traditionally good co-operation and brought it to the highest level in the history of our relations. We also thank for all the donations to the Parliament of Montenegro, thanks to which we have achieved some of the greatest efforts in strengthening openness and transparency. That is why we can say that you largely contributed to the results by which we are recognized by the domestic and international public in this period,” said speaker Bečić.

The Mission will continue to support the Parliament in its efforts to further strengthen its institutional capacities.