“Don’t trust anyone”. No one cares and everyone wants to use you. That is not different here as well, yeah France is known to help others… I believe you. Russia needs to help France and the French would welcome that.

 Dose Mail tells France Zion pigs how they should run their country? Well, that’s the problem as we can see Ynauqis and Zion in power in France and not one French.

Also, what do you know, huh?

 I remember “someone” saying yanquis, Zion, Wahhabi, and Kurds have a plan for Syria when they fail.

 That is to use Ex-ISIS and Al-Qaeda they hold in Northern Syria against the Syrian government.

 We saw them using those Wahhabi pigs just a few weeks back, and guess why they did it?

“Hundreds of Daesh terrorists, including a large number of ringleaders with foreign nationalities, have reportedly been transferred from Syria’s Hasakah Province to Dayr al-Zawr under the air cover provided by US-led reconnaissance plane.”

I don’t want to say I was “right” because we all knew it. But how fuking useless yanquis are, makes me laugh. I like how Iran-Russia and Syria knew it from the start and were pointing out facts that this is done so by yanquis, Zion, and Kurds themselves.

Yanquis with Kurds move Wahhabis out of camps and jails – a few months later the same Wahhabis the yanquis and Kurds moved out those camp/jails come back FULLY know what to do to break out of the jails and Yanuqis like kids thinking they fooled everyone and move them out.

But we have morons here that cry and ask why their heroes Zion, yanquis, Wahhabi, and Kurds did this?

 Kurds are as useless as Zion and yanquis, we saw them get killed like rats against the Turkish army.

 The first order Kurds give to their Kurds rats was RUN and HIDE. Again we saw Kurds get killed by Wahhabis in the area they control – was the Wahhabis on the weaker side or Kurds, YES Wahhabis were the ones attacking one of the areas Kurds hold.

Kurds, yanquis, and Zion need Wahhabis to fight the Syrian people. In the last year or so how many Wahhabis Russia-Iran-Syria killed? a lot to the point the Zion-backed group needed to change their plans and use some of the Wahabis, they hold in N-Syria aginst Syrian government and its allies.