(Sabrina Haverty) It is said that when someone is under pressure, it reveals their character and what they are “made of.”

Related Potential Roadblock for Biden’s SCOTUS Nominee: Legal Adviser Says Kamala Harris Doesn’t Have Power to Break a Tie

Well, the Biden administration is facing increasing scrutiny due to their incompetence. While they try to hide behind words, their body language tells the truth of what they are really experiencing.

Former United States Army Interrogator and body language expert Gregory Hartley and Newsmax host Grant Stinchfield discussed Kamala Harris’s facial expressions in her recent interview with NBC’s Craig Melvin on the “Today” show.

Hartley pointed out the apparent shock Harris experienced by the questions she was asked.

During discussion of voting rights legislation, Kamala was asked, “Why has the administration not been able to get Senate Democrats onboard?”

“We are not giving up,” she claimed.

Seemingly unsatisfied with her response Melvin continued to press, “Why has it taken this long?”

Harris claimed, “We don’t give up, and we will not give up,” but Hartley noted her mannerisms told a different story than the confidence she attempted to portray.

“There’s an automatic redirect,” Hartley pointed out. “You will see her face start to hold her forehead up to ask for approval, and you see her blink rate increase, which indicates fight-or-flight.”

Hartley also gave insight to what Kamala’s lips revealed.

“Her lips compress to hold back some kind of information, and then she purses her lips to condemn.” He went on to indicate he has seen this from her before. “It’s classic Kamala Harris.”

Hartley responded, “She might actually be surprised he asked her that question because it is a tough question for her.”

He also noted that Kamala avoided eye contact when Melvin proposed her being Biden’s running mate for 2024.

“She stammers as she tries to navigate what to say,” Hartley said. “When you’re feeling stressed, you lose your cadence, your normal cadence, and you lose your ability to structure language.”

Hartley went on to say, “That would roll off my tongue if I knew I was going to be the running mate in 2024. I would say, ‘Eh, there is nothing to that. That’s just garbage’ and just push it aside. You didn’t see that. You saw stress, and you saw her blink rate go through the roof. Good indicators that something is going on inside her body.”

The voting legislation bill being tossed around Congress is H.R. 5746.

It is manipulatively named “Freedom to Vote,” and in an attempt to curb its appeal, it was put under the “NASA Enhanced Use Leasing Extension Act of 2021.”

The House agreed to a Senate amendment on Jan. 13th, and there is a motion to reconsider the vote.

It has been a long stubborn fight — as the bill was first introduced in late October.

Perhaps credit should be given where it is due, Democrats are determined, but their dishonesty puts them on the wrong side of history.

Anything positive about the bill, such as making Election Day a federal holiday, is easily outweighed by intended expansion of mail-in voting and same-day voter registration.

Both mail-in voting and registration after the deadline gave way for huge disparities during the 2020 election and in general provided less accountability.

Democrats would not have to conceal if they were honest and favored common sense policy conducive to the freedom Americans enjoy. This is not the case, and they have had to resort to other tactics to get their agenda met.

Deception and inconsistency are not the way of liberty, but they are often the strategy of progressive liberals.

This article appeared originally on The Western Journal.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.