(Swatson) “They like something that we — you know, who consider ourselves more enlightened — don’t think is good for them”

Related CNN Tries To Put Jim Acosta In Their Primetime Lineup And He’s A Ratings Dud

In a broadcast virtually no one watched, CNN talking heads and CNN’s potato head Brian Stelter had a ‘debate’ about Joe Rogan’s podcast causing ‘big problems’ for Spotify, and declared that all of Rogan’s millions of listeners are basically idiots.

Weaselly ‘reporter’ Oliver Darcy, who will not relent until everything apart from CNN is censored and banned, compared Rogan’s audience to fat unhealthy people who choose to eat junk food rather than stay healthy.

Writer Kat Rosenfield went one further and labelled Rogan’s entire global audience as stupid.

“Here is people who, they like something that we — you know, who consider ourselves more enlightened — don’t think is good for them, we think that they’re internalizing this misinformation and using it to make bad decisions.” she proclaimed.

Rogan gets on average 11 million listeners to every podcast he does. Much of his content features in depth discussions with experts in their field that last 3+ hours.

CNN struggles to reach 700,000 viewers at prime time and deals in 3 minute sound bites and meh Russia conspiracy nonsense featuring primarily their own creepy correspondents.

Who exactly is more enlightened?

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.