(Steve Watson) “I am not interested in only talking to people that have one perspective”

Joe Rogan has broken his silence on the ongoing effort by musicians and other celebrities to censor his podcast on Spotify.

Following Neil Young’s decision to throw his weight behind ‘200 doctors’ (who are not all doctors, and many of whom are just disgruntled leftist trolls and trans activist types on social media) who called for Rogan to be booted off the platform, other ‘celebrities’ including Prince Harry and Megan Markle have jumped on the Rogan hate train.

Addressing the situation in an Instagram post, Rogan noted “I’m just a person who sits down with people and has conversations with them,” adding “Have I got things wrong before? Absolutely. But I try to correct things if I have done, because I am interested in telling the truth and finding out what the truth is.”

Rogan defended his interviews with Dr. Peter McCullough and Dr. Robert Malone, describing them as “very highly credentialed, highly intelligent, very accomplished” medical experts.

Rogan also pointed out that he has had plenty of other guests on his show with differing opinions on COVID treatments and vaccines.

“I am interested in having interesting conversations with people that have differing opinions. I am not interested in only talking to people that have one perspective,” Rogan asserted.

He continued, “That’s one of the reasons I had Sanjay Gupta on, who I respect very much and I really enjoyed our conversation together. He has a different opinion to those two people.”

“I had Michael Osterholm on at the beginning of the pandemic. He’s on President Biden’s COVID-19 Advisory Board. I had Dr. Peter Hotez who is a vaccine expert,” Rogan added.

“I am interested in finding out what’s correct and how people come to those conclusions and what the facts are,” he emphasised.

Rogan also noted that Spotify has agreed to place disclaimers on any content, including his own, related to COVID.

“One of things Spotify wants to do, that I agree with, is that at the beginning of these controversial podcasts—specifically the ones about COVID—is to put a disclaimer and say that you should speak with your physician and that these people and the opinions that they express are contrary to the opinions of the consensus of experts, which I think is very important. Sure. Have that on there. I’m very happy with that,” Rogan stated.

He also said he is “very sorry” that Spotify is “taking so much heat” on the situation, and added that he is “not mad” at Neil Young , whom he is a “huge fan” of.

Spotify has reportedly had $2 billion wiped off their market value owing to the backlash against Rogan.

However, the podcast host said he disagrees with the label ‘misinformation’ being applied to the shows he did with Malone and McCullough.

Speaking directly to his listeners Rogan said “My pledge to you is that I will do my best to try to balance out these more controversial viewpoints with other people’s perspectives so we can maybe find a better point of view.”

He added, “I don’t want to just show the contrary opinion to what the narrative is. I want to show all kinds of opinions, so that we can all figure out what’s going on—and not just about COVID, about everything. About health, about fitness wellness, the state of the world itself.”

Rogan concluded, “And even thank you to the haters because it’s good to have some haters. It makes you reassess what you’re doing and put things into perspective. I think that’s good, too.”

One celebrity who has responded positively to Rogan’s post is Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson, who replied “Great stuff here brother. Perfectly articulated. Look forward to coming on one day and breaking out the tequila with you.”

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.