(Jack Davis) Amid an outpouring of democracy in the streets of Canada’s capital Saturday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau went into hiding.

On Saturday, thousands of people who were either part of a “Freedom Convoy” of truckers opposed to Trudeau’s vaccine mandate or citizens opposed to heavy-handed government policies converged on Ottawa and the city’s Parliament Hill.

Although Trudeau was whisked away from the spectacle of citizens voicing their opinions, allegedly on the grounds of security, police reported Saturday evening that there were no charges filed against any of the protesters.

Police reported some statues were adorned with anti-government slogans.

The protest originally targeted mandates that now require unvaccinated truckers who enter Canada from the United States to spend two weeks in quarantine. It has grown over time to include a cross-section of Canadian citizens.

Protesters said that they believed their actions were essential.

“I’ve never done anything like this in my life. I’m 53 years old, and this is the hill I’m going to die on. Do not tell me I have to put something in my body,” Lorraine Commodore, a convoy supporter, said during the protest Saturday, according to CBC News.

Her husband, Mike, said there is a disconnect between the rules and reality.

“How many boosters is it gonna take? Wake up, people. How many boosters? People who’ve taken the two shots, they’re still coming down with COVID-19. They’re still testing positive. So, where’s the science? What science? It’s amazing what government scientists will say when their paychecks depend on it,” he said.

On Saturday, former President Donald Trump took a moment at a Texas rally to endorse the protests, according to CTV.

Trump said protesters were “doing more to defend American freedom than our own leaders by far.”

“We want those great Canadian truckers to know that we are with them all the way,” he said.

Officials said Trudeau and his family were moved because there was a fear that protesters could leave the main protest area and go to his official residence.

Ottawa police Chief Peter Sloly said he has been told the protest will last only through the weekend, but that “the option of [it] going into the week is also still on the table,” CBC News reported.

Prior to running away from the protest, Trudeau had disparaged the convoy.

“The small fringe minority of people who are on their way to Ottawa who are holding unacceptable views that they are expressing do not represent the views of Canadians who have been there for each other, who know that following the science and stepping up to protect each other is the best way to continue to ensure our freedoms, our rights, our values as a country,” he said, according to the Independent.

“This thing has really taken on a life of its own,” said Jay Hill, interim leader of Canada’s Maverick Party and a former Conservative member of Parliament from Alberta, according to The New York Times.

“The vast majority of the people that have either come on board to participate in the truck convoy or those donating to support it financially have just reached a point of frustration and exasperation with these lockdowns and continuation of restrictions that they want someone to speak up and say ‘enough’ to the federal government.”

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.