(Adam Wilson) This week, rumors circulated that left wing justice Stephen Breyer planned to retire from the Supreme Court. Later that week, the rumors were confirmed. Biden made an announcement that he plans to replace Breyer with a black woman.

Related White House Press Secretary Slips and Says Who She’s Really Reporting To and It’s Not Biden

Today, the White House confirmed the name of the woman he plans to nominate. The Gateway Pundit Reports–

“The White House has confirmed that they are considering South Carolina District Court Judge Michelle Childs to fill Justice Stephen Breyer’s seat on the Supreme Court.

Childs is, as promised by Biden, a black woman.

“Judge Childs is among multiple individuals under consideration for the Supreme Court, and we are not going to move her nomination on the Court of Appeals while the President is considering her for this vacancy,” White House Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates said in a statement, obtained by Fox News. “At the same time, reporting indicating that the President is only seriously considering three potential nominees is incorrect.”

The report added that “Childs had been scheduled to appear at a hearing on Capitol Hill on Tuesday as part of the confirmation process for the Washington, D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals for which Biden nominated her in December.

House Majority Whip James Clyburn, who pressured Joe Biden to nominate a black woman to the court before endorsing him during the 2020 election, has expressed support for Childs. He also said that he has been lobbying for her nomination with “the president and his people.”

“Now, as it relates to who, I don’t have anything against the seven or eight names that I have been floated as possibilities, the all great people,” Clyburn, who represents South Carolina’s 6th congressional district, told the Washington Post. “The fact of the matter is, I have been discussing Michelle Childs with the president and his people now for, I guess at least 13 months now.”

Biden has said that he intends to announce his official nominee by the end of February.”

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.