(Aden Tate) It was on January 15 that the Canadian government decided they needed to impose a jab mandate over Canadian truckers, claiming that man no longer had the right to his own body, but that his body instead belonged to the state.

Related Are You a Survivalist or Prepper? (Or Both!)

And so, Canadian truckers organized, creating the Freedom Convoy.

This massive caravan may very well have set a world record, as it’s estimated that 50,000 trucks have joined with it. That’s trucks – not truckers.

The January 15 royal decree has stated that Canadian truckers who do not have The Jabawockee in their body will be forced by Canada to undergo a two-week quarantine period should they traverse the Canadian-American border.

Washington DC decreed a similar demand on January 22, when the post-9/11 US Department of Homeland Security decided that Canadian truckers had to be fully jabbed should they enter American soil.

Both of these decrees (when enforced by those who do not understand what their respective countries truly stand for) would result in thousands of men losing their ability to provide a paycheck for their families – to put bread on the table.

And the Canadian truckers are not alone, it seems. Reports are surfacing of thousands of American truckers all traveling up to Canada to join the fray. The caravan is heading towards Ottawa, where it intends to turn the city into the largest truck stop of all time.

Canadian mainstream media has been downplaying the extent of this convoy, and there are even reports surfacing that the live camera feeds the public can normally watch online of Canadian highways have been shut down.

This is further exacerbated in areas such as Quebec, where all those over the age of 12 have to abide by the “papers, please” mindset to those at the front door of stores over 1500 square meters. Should they not have the proper Juden paperwork in order, those Canadian citizens will then be escorted – like a child – by a “health warden” who will ensure they only shop for essential goods.

While grocery stores are specifically permitted areas for the unjabbed, Walmart and Costco are not classified as grocery stores, and thus, are regions which require a health warden to shop in.

They’re perfectly safe to shop for groceries, but when they step across the aisle to buy a pair of wool socks, they’re suddenly dangerous.

Woe to those who do not live in an area with any nearby non-Walmart/Costco “grocery stores.”

GoFundMe froze more than $4 million donated to the Freedom Convoy

On January 20, a grouping of dozens of truckers drove a continual loop back and forth from Emerson, Manitoba, to Pembina, North Dakota, causing massive congestion, in a show of their disapproval of these mandates.

A GoFundMe account was started for the Freedom Convoy, rapidly raising over $4 million US dollars. Then GoFundMe froze the money, stating that they wanted the organization to clearly delineate how the money was to be fairly distributed amongst the 50,000 trucks.

It doesn’t seem to be stopping these truckers, however. At least, 12,000 American men just showed up to the party.

The end results were known from the start.

Countries across the globe are already experiencing supply chain problems as a result of the perceived unbridled power of those who have infiltrated the field of public health. While there are no bounds to human stupidity, these decrees are not being done ignorant of what the final consequences will be.

Further supply chain problems are fully expected. So, why are these people pushing through these policies?

Transportation Intermediaries Association President and CEO Anne Reinke said, “Americans are struggling with higher prices and scarce goods, at the grocery store, the gas pump, and diners across the country.”

She went on to say, “One way to make this drastically worse overnight is to take tens of thousands of truck drivers and forbid them from entering the country, leaving countless amounts of essential freight at the doorstep of our country.”

Antonio Cachazo, Regional Director for International Transportation Services, says that these types of decrees could cause a interruption in the transport of medical supplies.

It’s also been noted that these decrees have cost Canada at least 10% of their international drivers already. If professionals within the field of freight and logistics can figure this out, do you truly think that politicians cannot?

They know what is being done. And yet they still do it.

Why purposefully push for war with Russia? Why purposefully cause supply chain problems?

When you cannot get your medicine, when food is not showing up on your store shelves, when you cannot keep your propane tanks filled or your house warm – this will all have been preventable. It didn’t have to happen. Yet globalists pushed you into it.

This is what they wanted.

What do you think about the Freedom Convoy?

Do you support what these truckers in Canada are doing? Why are hundreds of thousands of people protesting around the world but not in the United States? Share your thoughts in the comments.

Aden Tate is a regular contributor to TheOrganicPrepper.com and TheFrugalite.com. Aden runs a micro-farm where he raises dairy goats, a pig, honeybees, meat chickens, laying chickens, tomatoes, mushrooms, and greens. Aden has two published books, The Faithful Prepper and Zombie Choices. You can find his podcast The Last American on Preppers’ Broadcasting Network.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.