(Adam Wilson) This week, a massive protest happened across Canada opposing vaccine mandates and heavy handed covid restrictions. Thousands of trucks drove across Canada in a convoy, the protest ended in Ottawa at the Canadian parliament.

Related The Canadian Freedom Convoy: Blacked Out, Defunded, and Still Growing

The protests have went off peacefully and have been seen massive turnout. The Epoch Times Reports–

“OTTAWA—The “Freedom Convoy” protests continued overnight and into Sunday Jan. 30 in Ottawa, with trucks and vehicles still parked in the city’s downtown core, and people gathered on Parliament Hill, with some setting off fireworks at night.

Protest organizers say they will stay in Ottawa until their demands for lifting COVID-19 mandates are met.

Truck horns continued to be heard honking intermittently on the second day of protest in the nation’s capital, with people walking around carrying Canadian flags as well other flags and signs.

The event, which started on Saturday Jan. 29, drew thousands of supporters from across the country. The Parliament Hill area as well as nearby streets on Saturday were packed with people.

A spokesperson for the Ottawa Police Service told The Epoch Times it won’t give an official estimate of the number of people who have come to the city for the protest until the demonstrations are over. Police also refused to confirm how long they are expecting the protests to last.

Protest organizers said at a news conference on Jan. 30 that they’ve lost count of how many trucks have joined the protest, saying as one example, one convoy heading from the West of the country had around 1,000 vehicles. Protest organizer Benjamin Dichter also noted that the protesters have been peaceful.

In a statement on Jan. 30, police said there have been “no incidents of violence or injuries reported.”

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.