(Roy Green) Doctors Peter Breggin and Peter McCullough warned that vaccines are more dangerous than the Wuhan coronavirus (COVID-19) itself.

“We’re giving vaccines to children. Everything I’ve seen and talked about with my colleagues indicates that the vaccine is much, much more dangerous for a five-year-old. COVID’s danger of death approaches zero in a five or 10 or 15-year-old, and is pretty low even for an 18-year-old,” said Breggin during the January 12 episode of his “ReFounding America” show on Brighteon.TV.

McCullough agreed. “So we know with children that the chances of dying of COVID are way, way less than one percent. We know the chances of being hospitalized with COVID are way, way less than one percent. In fact, they can be expressed in less than one per million.”

Citing new data, McCullough said there is a 100-fold greater chance of being injured by the vaccines and getting myocarditis than getting severe COVID-19, especially with the more contagious but much milder omicron variant.

While the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported 21,000 vaccine deaths, whistleblowers estimated 45,000 Americans had died because of the vaccine last summer. “That’s catastrophic,” said McCullough, “that’s worse than a war with COVID-19 itself.”

As proof of rising deaths, McCullough noted that the insurance industry is seeing an actuarial increase of 40 percent in mortality in what’s called the “prime years of life” group, attributing the “cataclysmic rise” to COVID-19 vaccine exposure.

Breggin, a respected psychiatrist and book author, said that based on his experience with interpreting Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and CDC reports, “10 reports could represent 100 actual events easily. In fact, one or two reports could represent 100 events. ”

“So when I heard that we were up to 10,000 reports with the CDC, it was clear to me that it could easily be 100,000, and much more. And this is from scientific data. It’s not the best we can have, but scientific data on what are the reporting rates.”

McCullough, a renowned cardiologist, said: “It’s very obviously going to be a very big number. Everything is pointing to the fact that the vaccine is leading to large amounts of excess mortality. And there’s just going to be an issue of how precise will that realization should be and when does the realization comes in? Where, you know, globally, it’s said that the vaccines have to stop.”

Vaccines have become much less effective with the emergence of variants, particularly the deadly delta and the widespread omicron.

Politicization of healthcare during the COVID-19 pandemic

Last November, McCullough testified to the Senate against what he termed as the politicization of healthcare during the COVID-19 pandemic by the federal government, which restrained the supply of cheap treatments such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin. (Related: Prominent doctor and researcher calls for COVID-19 vaccines to be pulled from the market.)

In an op-ed on WSJ.com, French virologist and Nobel Prize winner Luc Montagnier and American novelist Jed Rubenfeld basically stated that omicron has mutated to the point where the vaccines are obsolete. A recent study from Denmark and data from the U.K. Health Security Agency corroborate their views as both show that the vaccines have zero efficacy against omicron.

“And so the bottom line is the vaccines are now obsolete,” said McCullough. “The Supreme Court is trying to decide on mandates that would invoke the use of basically a useless vaccine on the population, with all the dangers and caveats that we’ve already gone over.”

In a separate interview with WND News Center‘s Art Moore and posted by ClarkCountyToday.com, McCullough advised that vaccines should be pulled off the market because they aren’t solving the problem.

The government, he said, should instead be focused on providing early treatment for high-risk patients who develop symptoms. Unless, of course, the grand plan is to “starve the population of early treatment in order to still railroad the vaccines.”

Watch the full January 12 episode of “ReFounding America” with Dr. Peter Breggin below. Catch new episodes of the program every Wednesday at 6-7 p.m. on Brighteon.TV.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.