A former public radio reporter has been charged with firebombing cop cars during Black Lives Matter protests in Arkansas, according to federal authorities.

Renea Goddard, 22, was one of four charged earlier this month with allegedly sneaking into Arkansas State Police headquarters to slash squad car tires and torch them with Molotov cocktails, the US Attorney’s Office said in a release.

“One vehicle had been set on fire, one had been vandalized with spray paint, and several others had punctured tires,” prosecutors said of the Aug. 28 attack in Little Rock.

“Investigators discovered a detonated Molotov cocktail made from a bottle of brandy,” the release said.

Goddard — whose Twitter says she is president of Students for a Democratic Society — was named by witnesses as being part of the attack, and was seen on surveillance entering in dark clothing, prosecutors said.

“Federal search warrants were executed to obtain the locations of their cell phones, and cell site data confirmed that their cell phones were in the location,” the release said.

She was arrested and released from jail on Dec. 17, according to federal court records obtained by ABC7.

“Breaking into a police compound and firebombing a police vehicle with a homemade explosive device is clearly not a peaceful protest,” US Attorney Cody Hiland said of the four charged.

“They will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”

It was Goddard’s second arrest from the Black Lives Matter protests, having been busted for violating curfews in June, the outlet said.

Her LinkedIn says she comes from a military family and worked for Arkansas Public Media after being awarded the George C. Douthit Endowed Scholarship.

She then worked as a “reporter and host” for KUAR Public Radio, as well as contributing to an LGBTQ news outlet, her profile said.

KUAR confirmed to ABC 7 that Goddard had been a part-time employee at the radio station, but said she was not working there when she was arrested.

“At the time of the incident, the individual had not been affiliated with the radio station for over six months,” a spokesperson said.

Also arrested in the same operation were fellow Little Rock residents Brittany Dawn Jeffrey, 31, Emily Nowlin, 27, and Aline Espinosa-Villegas, 24, prosecutors said.