One of the lesser discussed BIG PICTURE stories being missed within the people’s revolt against totalitarian government under the guise of this pandemic, is the abject void of pragmatic conservative leadership in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.

As the working class Canadians rally behind their blue collar truck drivers, the invisibility of strong, opposing voices to the leftist government they are challenging is brutally obvious.

It is almost painful to watch this play out.

Where are the men of courage? And, that question has nothing to do with gender.

I generally try to stay out of the issue of questioning representative government in other nations; however, when you see the people of Canada crying for freedom, trying desperately to take back their individual liberty, there comes a time when all the free people of the world have no more tongue to bite.

The voice of Conservative finance critic Pierre Poilievre is what many people point toward when identifying a “conservative‘ within the parliamentary system of Canada. Forgive my criticisms, but if this is the strongest representative voice of middle Canada, this too is pathetic. WATCH:

What the hell kind of high school nonsense is this? A debate about tone, sensibilities, portrayals? If the goal was to miss the entire moment, skip the point, talk in circles as if the media was the audience, and put on a performance focused on the totally irrelevant; then, mission accomplished.

As a patient and frustrated pragmatist would say, (deep breath) … “When you’re done with all that, can you please address the central need of the voices assembled a few meters away shouting at you?” Good grief, and this guy is presumably ‘strong‘ compared to Conservative Leader Erin O’Toole.

There comes a time when you need to channel the raw frustration of your constituents – put them into articulate voice and focus – not pontificate about their delicate humanism in your arguments.

As an American, this last year has certainly clarified for me why the Yellow Vests in France, the Brexiteers in the U.K. and to a lesser extent the working class in Australia, all previously supported President Donald J. Trump.

In essence, Donald Trump was/is the one unapologetic voice for working class people just about everywhere.

It also does not go unnoticed how each of the aforementioned nations contain systems of government based on parliamentary constructs that essentially force politicians to compromise principles for nonsensical shades of pastel political coalition building.

This is the time in the history of government when the core, central and basic topic of FREEDOM is being eroded.

This is not a time for pastels. This is a time for bold contrasts.

The Western values of representative government either support the basic tenet that people should be free, or that government does not. There is no middle ground.

We cannot be partially adherent to tyranny when the systems of government are demanding obedience to forced medical procedures. At this moment of consequence, we are either free to reject medical treatment – or we are not free. There is no middle ground.

We are either free, as unique individuals to move around our own country without some arbitrary registration process, or we are not free. There is no middle ground.

The premise of “papers please” is either rejected, or it is accepted. There is no middle ground.

These are the core tenets that must be determined, argued, fought about, defended and decided. There is no room for quisling prose or the parsing of personage amid the discussion.

This is not a debate for the soft consideration about the tender sensibilities of small voices.

Hell, this is a debate that should never have been a debate, but here it is.

Every conservative politician must now, in this moment of extreme significance, rise to the needs of this damned occasion, fight for freedom like they are the third monkey on the ramp to Noah’s Ark, or get the hell out of the way and let the people with dirty fingernails decide the outcome.

The moment is now. The moment, this moment, is what the truckers of Canada and the free people around the world who support them are trying to force upon unwilling government leadership around the world.

Every conservative politician in Canada should be forced to look at this little girl and justify their action or lack thereof.

There is no middle ground.

Lead, follow, or get the hell out of the way!

She deserves better than this:

CANADA – Conservative Leader Erin O’Toole is facing an internal revolt and some members of his caucus are prepared to trigger a vote on his future as early as Wednesday, sources told CBC News.

MPs opposed to O’Toole’s leadership have collected enough signatures — 35 so far — to hold a secret ballot to decide his fate, sources said.

A vote by 50 per cent plus one of the 119 sitting Conservative MPs calling on O’Toole to step down would force him to make way for an interim leader immediately. Sources tell CBC News that O’Toole’s caucus opponents believe they have the necessary votes, with at least 60 MPs agreeing that he has to go. (read more)