YOUTHS spat in a man's face in a spot where residents are clubbing together to fight anti-social behaviour.

Police have moved to "reassure" people in Bitterne Park over recent problems and say they are working on a "long term solution".

But Kevin Billington, 54, of Riverdene Place, said youngsters have been causing distress since December last year.

Mr Billington said some youths spat in his face, while others have been smoking cannabis in the porch of his flat building, and trespassing on moored river boats.

Neighbourhood Watch and WhatsApp groups have been set up as part of residents' efforts to keep the group away.

Mr Billington said: "I live near Bitterne Park Hotel, and this group of youths congregate around here, hanging around.

"They stand in the porch to our flats, smoking weed.

"I've been spat at when I was trying to move them on. I know this sort of thing is happening all over the country, it's an ongoing problem.

"They were stood outside SPAR and were asking an elderly lady for money and she was very frightened and they are trying to get people's phones off them, and we're not having that.

"We have had enough of it. We have now got cameras on the estate, but we shouldn't have to live like this. Some of these kids think they're invincible and they will stop at nothing.

"We shouldn't have to put up with this and it's not the way kids should behave. Anti-social behaviour is a constant source of stress, anxiety and anger among Bitterne Triangle residents.

"There is no police presence at all and some people are just too frightened to say anything.

"Kids will be kids but they need to do something else and behave. I want to nip this in the bud."

Mr Billington's report to the police last December was not taken further due to there not being any "viable lines of enquiry", police said.

Inspector Sharath Ranjan, of the Southampton North Neighbourhoods Policing Team, said: "I would like to reassure the community that we take antisocial behaviour seriously and are aware of the issues at Riverdene Place.

"We are currently working towards a long term solution based on opportunities available to us.

"Reporting incidents like these is invaluable to us in building a bigger picture of antisocial behaviour in an area, so we can make sure officers are being sent to the right place at the right time to prevent crime."

Despite the issues raised, many Bitterne Park business owners told the Echo they were surprised that this is happening on their doorstep.

The manager of rideride cycle workshop, Tom Hughes, said: "I think it’s a great area and I have never seen anything bad, but we’re only open from 9am to 5pm.

"We’ve been here nine years and it’s a great area. I suppose it’s not surprising because we have fish and chip shops, the SPAR and the park here, but I have never seen anything."