TWO Southampton car parks could be transformed into a new bus hub as part of an investment just shy of £3m.

A new bus hub could be created by redeveloping car parks at Albion Place and Castle Way near the old city walls.

If approved by civic chiefs, there would be ten stops - an increase from six existing ones near Westquay but this is expected to cause a decrease of £320,000 in revenue due to the loss of almost 130 parking spaces.

Meanwhile, the Castle Way car park would become a new green space to “enhance the setting and interpretation” of the city centre.

The Albion Place car park next to Westquay is due to be closed and transformed into a bus hub under Council plans.

The scheme, that is estimated to cost £2.7m, would improve public transport in Southampton, according to council documents.

Councillors are expected to approve the scheme at a cabinet next Monday.

Deputy council leader, Cllr Jeremy Moulton, told the Echo: “This will see a fantastic new park and public realm, which will better connect Westquay with the Old Town and down to the waterfront, allowing us to better show case the old town walls.

“The improved bus facilities will provide for improved bus journey times in and out of the Southampton.

“As part of this scheme we will also be providing more disabled parking where the shop mobility hub is.”

The proposed layout for the new bus hub and open space at Albion Place / Castle Way car parks in Southampton. Photo from: Southampton City Council.

The majority of the scheme is expected to be funded by the Department for Transport’s transporting cities fund, whilst just over £700,000 is expected to be provided by the council’s local transport plan.

The scheme has received cross party support with Cllr Sarah Bogle, ward councillor for Bargate ward, saying: “We support this proposal, which forms part of the successful Transforming Cities Fund (TCF) bid secured by the previous Labour administration.

“This should help improve bus journey reliability and improve the overall setting of this part of the city centre so close to the historic medieval walls. here is plenty of alternative parking available in the vicinity.

The Albion Place car park next to Westquay is due to be closed and transformed into a bus hub under Council plans.

The scheme has been met with mixed reactions from residents though with a banner recently having been hung at the car parks calling for them to be changed into open space, whilst others have called for the areas to remain as they are.