A much-loved pleasure park faces serious risk of closure if a last-ditch fundraising attempt fails.

As reported in the Daily Echo, Southampton Pleasure Park at Southampton Sports Centre is fighting for survival after falling victim to arson for the second time in two years.

The park, often considered Southampton’s best-kept secret for entertaining children, was founded back in the 1970s by a grandad-of six and his wife Betty.

Don Salter worked as a trampoline instructor in schools across Hampshire and wanted to set up his own site.
• READ MORE: 17 pics of the Lido in the 1970s to take you back >>>

He spent hours in the shed at the bottom of his garden hand-making many of the rides including the big slide, merry-go-round, trampolines, helter-skelter and swinging boats using old lorry axels and pieces of wood.

And Don even had to battle with Southampton City Council 50 years ago to paint all the rides in bright colours because they wanted them kept natural colours.

Don and Betty retired in 2012 and handed control of the park to their two sons Fred and Gary.

Situated behind Southampton Sports Centre in Bassett the city’s family attraction is a popular venue for children’s birthday parties.

Despite its popularity among the locals, the Pleasure Park has seen more than its fair share of problems over the years.

A metre-wide sinkhole appeared under one of the trampolines in 2014 that measured four feet deep.

The hole appeared after heavy flooding and resulted in part of the park having to be cordoned off as a safety precaution.

Then, seven years later, vandals struck.
• READ MORE: How Thornhill changed from countryside >>>

A marque used for children's birthday parties was completely destroyed by flames while sheds and a play train was vandalised

Fred Salter told the Echo at the time: “I am absolutely devastated.

“All this fair does is give entertainment to young children and they have just destroyed it.

“This is all my life. My mum and dad spent their whole life building this park. We have done our best to keep it going and keep it in the family”

Arsonists attacked the park once again in December, causing thousands of pounds worth of damage.

And now owners have begun fundraising efforts in the hope of raising £10,000 to help pay the bill to cover the damage.

There's a risk of the park having to shut if the last-ditch fundraiser fails.