EXTRA security measures are being installed at a retirement living block after residents raised concerns about their safety.

People living at the 43-flat Sycamore Lodge, on Paynes Road in Freemantle, Southampton, have been given doorbell cameras and the main entrance doors will be replaced.

It comes after Mick Smith, 70, found his mobility scooter had been stolen from outside his home one morning.

The scooter has since been located – but is the latest in a series of concerns about crime at the block run by Stonewater.

Mick said there had been another break-in and ‘no-one’ had come to check the CCTV.

“The camera is right there by the door and no one has come round to look at it,” he said.

Resident Jane Edwards added that she wanted the company to spend cash on security instead of gardening – but did not get a satisfactory answer.

She said: “We asked if that funding could go towards safety and locking up our scooters and Stonewater said no. Their answer is ‘we’re getting quotes for that’. Vulnerable residents need somewhere secure.”

A spokesperson at Stonewater, said: “We are really sorry that customers living in our independent living scheme Sycamore Lodge have reported that they are unhappy about the service they’ve recently received.

“Our team have been assisting the police with their investigation and we are working closely with our customers to resolve any further concerns.

“Whilst there is CCTV at the scheme, we have recently provided ring video doorbells to our customers who have external doors to give them additional reassurance and peace of mind. Repairs to the scheme’s entrance doors were carried out and completed (by January 20), however, to further increase security at Sycamore Lodge, a programme to replace the entrance doors – and some others throughout the building – has been approved, and work is expected to commence at the earliest possible time.

“Similarly, repairs to the roof are also due to be completed but we understand that some repairs are taking longer than usual because of contractor staff shortages. Meanwhile, we’ll continue to work closely with our customers at this scheme to resolve any outstanding repairs.”