A SOUTHAMPTON MP has branded the Prime Minister "entirely unfit for the office he holds" after the report into lockdown parties was partially published.

Sue Gray's investigation found "failures of leadership and judgment" in Downing Street, and acknowledged Boris Johnson was present at at least one event.

The senior civil servant said she had looked into 16 gatherings that allegedly took place during the pandemic, but cannot publish the full findings due to the Met Police investigating 12 of them.

Labour MP Alan Whitehead, who represents Southampton Test, told the Daily Echo the PM can no longer keep his position.

"It is a shame that we were not able to see the full report from Sue Gray today, although that is not her fault," said Mr Whitehead.

"What is clear from the update is that the Prime Minister is now subject to a criminal investigation regarding breaches of COVID-19 rules and I don't see how his position is tenable.

"The sacrifices that the British people made to keep themselves and their loved ones safe, have forever been tainted by the Prime Minister who has been taking us all for fools and has shown himself to be entirely unfit for the office he holds."

Romsey and Southampton North MP Caroline Nokes spoke in the Commons yesterday while Mr Johnson was under-fire from MPs.

She said: "The public and this house have been frustrated by having to wait for Sue Gray, wait for the Metropolitan police and today the prime minister has announced his new office at No 10.

"Please can he let this house know what specific structures are going to be put in place so that this house can hold it accountable."

In reply, the prime minister said: "We will make sure there is a new permanent secretary who will be accountable to me, and we'll make sure the codes of conduct that are applied both to SPADs and civil servants are properly enforced."

Cllr Satvir Kaur, who is the Labour leader in Southampton, has called for Mr Johnson's resignation.

"We were asked to wait for Sue Gray’s report, it says there was a ‘serious failure of leadership and judgement’," she said to the Echo.

"Almost everyone I speak to thinks Boris Johnson should resign, but it’s clear he is determined to put himself above what is right and decent.

"Now it’s down to Conservative MPs to do the right thing and get rid of him.

"Until this happens, the Government will be consumed by it, rather than trying to tackle real issues within our communities, like the cost of living crisis and crime."

Mr Johnson told MPs he will overhaul the operation in Downing Street and the Cabinet Office to address the concerns raised in Gray’s report, adding: “I get it and I will fix it.”

He faced shouts of “resign” from opposition MPs as he told the Commons: "We asked people across this country to make the most extraordinary sacrifices – not to meet loved ones, not to visit relatives before they died, and I understand the anger that people feel."