CONTRACTORS have completed a £450,000 project that aims to prevent more deaths at a notorious Hampshire junction.

Ipley Crossroads in the New Forest has been the scene of more than 50 injury accidents - including two fatalities - over the past 20 years.

Now the crossroads has been converted into a staggered junction to stop motorists driving straight across the C63 Marchwood to Beaulieu road.

Julian Gee, secretary of Sotonia Cycling Club, said: "I think all local cyclists will be delighted that the junction has been reconfigured.

"In the past it was always difficult to know whether motorists had seen a cyclist as they approached the crossroads. Many drivers seemed to plough on regardless of the 'Give Way' markings.

"With the new set up, everyone crossing the Beaulieu road will have to slow down or stop. This should reduce the risks of accidents substantially."

The Hampshire County Council scheme has been achieved by diverting part of the C97 Lyndhurst to Ipley route.

A new stretch of road has been built across an environmentally-sensitive area of heathland following a land-swap deal with the New Forest Verderers.

The two most recent fatalities at the crossroads both involved cyclists.

Mark Brummell, 53, of Southampton, was killed in an accident with a Renault Megane in 2012. Four years later Kieran Dix, 36, of Eastleigh, was fatally injured in a collision with a Vauxhall Zafira.

Five years ago Ipley was named as one of the worst spots in the country for accidents involving bikes.

Plans to turn the crossroads into a staggered junction were approved by the New Forest National Park Authority (NPA) a year ago.

The NPA report said: "The open nature of the crossroads has resulted in many drivers ignoring road safety at this junction and driving straight over without giving way."

The new section of the C97 has replaced part of the previous route, creating a T-junction 50 metres south of the crossroads. The newly-redundant section of road has been returned to open forest.

Totton and Marchwood county councillor David Harrison welcomed the completion of the route.

He added: "The work was carried out in one of the most environmentally-sensitive areas of land in the country and there were all sorts of expected considerations, as well as some unexpected ones.

"The investment will be well worthwhile. It was one of the most dangerous junctions in the country for cyclists."