PEDESTRIAN-ONLY zones in the centre of Southampton could become permanent, council documents suggest, and could cost £1.2m.

Currently, Carlton Place, Lower Banister Street, and Winchester Street are all blocked off to traffic, with benches and other outdoor seating put in place.

But now, these temporary closures may remain.

Additional traffic calming measures could also be brought in to neighbouring Bedford Place, including pavement buildouts, and permanent "pedestrian protection" - which alludes to road-blocking planters which are already in place.

Cllr Satvir Kaur, who is the Labour leader in Southampton, said: “When Labour introduced measures in Bedford Place to create a more attractive and safer space, it was well used and a huge success, bringing people together and attracting visitors into the city.

"It was a shame when the Conservative council chose to rip much of this up, but anything we can do to create more spaces like this that help our high streets and communities thrive, should be explored and encouraged.”

The plans will be discussed at the city council's Overview and Scrutiny Management Committee on Thursday.

As reported, the city council implemented the scheme back in 2020, to support the hospitality trade with outside dining areas during a time when inside dining was restricted.

The busy Bedford Place road was also closed, but following heavy protests from neighbouring firms was reopened last July - but with a new 20mph speed limit.

A working group was set up to assess plans for the next stages of the scheme.

Cllr John Noon, member of the Bedford Place Working Group, previously told the Echo: “I am hoping that the Working Group can come up with some fresh ideas that would go out for wider consultation that would help this unique part of the city to grow and achieve it full potential, which could include pedestrianization.”

As well as plans to keep the roads closed, the group has also suggested plans to implement "gateway features" to attract more visitors to the area from the other parts of the city centre.