READERS have had their say on whether they believe Boris Johnson is fit to run the country after the report on pandemic parties was partially published.

Sue Gray’s investigation found “failures of leadership and judgment” in Downing Street, and acknowledged Boris Johnson was present at at least one event.

The senior civil servant said she had looked into 16 gatherings that allegedly took place during the pandemic, but cannot publish the full findings due to the Met Police investigating 12 of them.
• READ MORE: Southampton politicians respond to Sue Gray's report on parties

We asked, is Boris Johnson the best person to lead the county?

This is what our readers said:

Nope, he's lied to everyone and anyone. Integrity in public office is essential. It's why public servants are jailed for abusing their position. If it applies to a police officer, it certainly applies to a Prime Minister.

Yes. He is positive, upbeat and actually seems to want this country to do well. Starmer on the other hand is a miserable git who rules (hahaha! with the unions pulling his puppet strings of course) a party who haven't got a clue about anything. They are far more in interested in playing games in parliament than coming up with any policies that will ever help anyone or get them back into power.

Boris isn't perfect by a long shot but he makes an excellent leader who is enthusiastic about this country. That will do for me.

I shudder at the thought of what would have happened if Labour had been in charge of hte pandemic. We would still be waiting for the unions to agree on who is allowed to provide PPE.

No he isn’t, he’s been laughing in everyone faces while people were losing loved one, not being able to say their last goodbyes. He hasn’t proud anything other than he can get away with anything, also while watching his “statement” today it shows he doesn’t care about the British public and has no remorse for his and his parties actions. And before any of the snowflakes say about doing his job, no I wouldn’t but I certainly wouldn’t have a party. The most devastating thing is that while he partied into the early hours of the eve of poor prince Phillip funeral whilst our beautiful queen sat alone. And we have that leading our country.

Nope but none of the others on offer are either... I'd probably do a better job and that's saying something.

There are few people in either party who I think are capable of leading the country.

He never anticipated he would have to lead us through a pandemic as well.

Yes he delivers on promises and as he said we had the fastest roll out of vaccines and boosters and we had the most open economy.

Be careful what you wish for.

The question is "is Boris Johnson ANY person to lead a country?" He was hands down never close to the "best" from the start.

The reason we have him is because noone else turned up in the 2019 elections.