IT’S a haven for creatives looking for a relaxed and cosy place where they can unwind and enjoy premium drinks and a bite to eat.

Cabinet Rooms is Winchester’s top rated cafe bar, according to TripAdvisor.

ALSO READ: This riverside cafe is a hidden gem with incredible views

Best known for its warm welcome, speciality coffee, homemade cakes and high quality cocktails, Cabinet Rooms started life as a local food blog by Gary Whiter and Marcus Roe, two gents with a passion for local produce and quality drinks.

In 2016, they organised and ran the first Winchester Cocktail Week and Ginchester Fête and then, in 2017, they opened the venue. In recognition of their work promoting local food and drink, they were awarded the title of Hampshire Food Heroes in the same year.

Since then, Cabinet Rooms has become firmly established as a popular and trusted place for people to meet and put the world to rights over a cheeseboard and a drink or two!

The venue is well known for its coffee cocktails, particularly their take on the espresso martini, the Cabinet Rooms Café Martini, which is made with a reposado tequila.

Central to the Cabinet Rooms ethos is a passion for learning about new food and drink, which is why you’ll always find interesting wines, spirits and cocktails on offer. There is a focus on good quality, local produce and premium spirits made to order.

The decor is inspired by the Bloomsbury set of the 1930s and customers love the cosy, intimate setting and friendly and knowledgeable staff.

Cabinet Rooms was forced to close its doors for much of the pandemic. A supportive landlord and city council enabled the owners to get through three lockdowns.

The overwhelming support of its regular and loyal customers has helped Cabinet Rooms bounce back and bosses are looking to the future. They have a very exciting year ahead with plans underway to expand the café and bring new exciting products and events to the city.

They're also recruiting managers and bartenders to help make the magic happen!
• Cabinet Rooms is our trader of the week. If you'd like us to feature your small business, click on the link below or email lorelei.reddin@dailyecho.co.uk