Here are some news stories that might be of interest. Most articles will be more or less summarized in the headline. You can skim the headlines and summaries, and click the links if they are of interest. Keep in mind, many of these reports are products of the Fake News, so although they will be what people are hearing and talking about, there is no guarantee any one of them is necessarily correct, and we have had cases of outright lies make it onto these pages, especially about President Trump.

No Q. You can see Q’s posts aggregated live, and new ones which may have gone live after our print deadline at http://www.qanon.pub

CodeMonkey on Gab : “Security logs from the Maricopa County Election Management System admin account are alleged to have been REMOTELY DELETED on February 11, 2021. Why has AG Brnovich just sat on this information? Where are the indictments? Why did Karen Fann sweep the audit results under the rug? Who helped Karen cover it all up?“

Testimony reveals Democrats were stealing overseas and military ballots from Michigan, Georgia and now Arizona too.

The Washington Free Beacon reported that “the Trump administration’s Iran envoy is facing ‘serious and credible’ threats to his safety, according to a non-public assessment produced this month by the State Department,” and this news “was delivered to Congress amid a campaign of public death threats by Iran aimed at former president Donald Trump and top administration officials.” Notice, Iran should know about the surveillance. And if they did, and it was US government surveillance, they wouldn’t bother with the threats, because obviously nothing is going to happen with that level of surveillance. But if the surveillance is Cabal, and Iran is Cabal, suddenly the entire dynamic changes, and those officials will face credible threats.

Senate group plows forward with election law changes after Trump criticisms. Not the Democrat federal takeover, but a lot of more minor stuff, with the same purposes. Oddly enough though, now that Kamala is Vice President, it could work against the Cabal, as one thing they are doing is stripping the VP of any power in the process.

Revolver looks at how Democrats are planning to steal 2024. Points out Harris will be in Pence’s position, and unlike Pence, she will do whatever it takes.

Kamala Harris reportedly drove within yards of pipe bomb during Capitol riot. So nobody had surveillance on a place the VP was going. making sure her scene was locked down, and nobody has any idea who placed the bomb? The bomb which was placed just at the perfect time to divert Capitol Police, and facilitate the protestors entering the Capitol.

Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) said Tuesday that House Republicans plan to hear testimony on Dec. 5 from the prosecutor appointed by former Attorney General Jeff Sessions to probe alleged wrongdoing by the Clinton Foundation, John Huber, to get an update on the case.

BondsForTheWin goes over the first step – how to request copies of the Surety Bonds for government officials, which they are required by law to provide.

Ottawa City Councillor launches court proceedings against Canada’s trucker convoy, targeting the nearly $10,000,000 in funds frozen by GoFundMe to “cover the City expenses.”

Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau says he has tested positive for COVID-19. So convenient. Now he needs to isolate. And it isn’t like the COVID tests can be faked with nothing more than lemon juice.

At least 100 truckers are blocking the Canadian border between Alberta and Montana for a third day in protest of vaccine mandates – and Canadian officials are beginning to freak out.

On Twitter – “So how could @AdamScotti who is Justin Trudeau personal photography just happen to be with the guy at the protest who just happens to have a brand new confederate flag that still has wrinkles on it. Imagine the coincidence!!”

A group of truckers parked across the Canada-US border between Alberta and Montana have been given a police SWAT team ultimatum to move. They just voted to refuse.

GoFundMe freezes $160,000 until organizers of Convoy to Canberra protests detail spending plan.

Canadian MP calling for motion of no confidence in Trudeau.

YouTube censors livestreams of Canadian trucker protests for being too popular.

A Letter to the AG of Ohio and US Attorney from the southern district of Ohio asking for state and federal investigation into Abigail and Leslie Wexner for their role in holding captive on their estate a young girl named Maria Farmer who was violently sexually assaulted by Jeffery Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell in 1996.

How Hunter helped China’s hegemonic scheme to overtake the U.S. From the link – “Some of Hunter’s Chinese deals were helpful to the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China’s colonialist scheme for buying influence across the Third World and luring poor nations into taking loans from Chinese banks they can never repay. BRI first appears… with Hunter Biden’s effort to use Chinese money to buy the national railroad of Greece. Hunter’s partner in this endeavor was the China Open Shipping Corporation (COSCO), a firm owned by the Communist government and closely linked to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). China hoped to push BRI’s influence into the heart of Europe and develop a network of ports, picturesquely described as a “string of pearls,” that could be used by the PLA to challenge American naval power in the Atlantic. Through COSCO, the Chinese government offered Hunter an incredible sweetheart deal because it wanted to take advantage of his personal connections in Greece.”

According to reporter Peter Schweizer’s latest book, Hunter Biden partnered with Bulger’s nephew in a highly questionable China deal. While discussing this on Q’s board, somebody pointed out how all the Mob informants like Sammy the Bull get relocated to Arizona. I suddenly realized that is probably because it is one of the highest densities of on-the-ground-vehicular-and-foot-surveillance, so they can keep tabs on both the mobsters, and any goodfellas who show up to deal with them. It is also where Brian Mancini was gangstalked and either committed suicide or was killed for his Veteran’s charity, and where that MK Ultra windup toy tried to take out Gabby Giffords, so there is probably a CIA MK Ultra reprogramming center there as well. I would assume the surveillance is elevated however for some other reason entirely, be it child-trafficking across the border, CIA bringing in drugs there, or something else, and everybody else is just piggybacking it.

In a recent paper, researchers—who hail from universities in Israel, Australia, and France—unveiled a unique device “fingerprinting” strategy that uses the properties of each user’s GPU stack to create distinct, trackable profiles as users travel across the web.

Hugh Hefner and his Physician Dr. Mark Saginor were in a gay relationship for 4 decades, the doctor’s daughter says.

Mossad set up a laptop stand at the mall near an Army base to sell laptops rigged with spyware to U.S. military servicemembers.

Oswego County District Attorney drops harassment case against former Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Somehow the Cuomos negotiated a deal.

Urgent warning as 300,000 Brits living with stealth disease that could kill within 5 years. Aortic Valve Stenosis, where the immune system attacks the heart valve and scars it, so it can’t close properly. And we already know the spike protein causes inflammation of the epithelial cell layer on the inside of the vascular system. It sounds like they have calculated this is how many people the vax will get with that, and they are already setting up the narrative these people had it already so it can’t be the vax. Why is it this hasn’t been stalking the population all along?

British man temporarily banned from Facebook after sharing gruesome photo of post-AstraZeneca, baseball-sized blood clot in his arm. The pic is horrific.

Japan’s Kowa says new study shows Ivermectin is effective against Omicron, Reuters reports that, then updates it to say it showed “antiviral effect” against Omicron. Just to toot our own horn, back in April of 2020, at the very start of the pandemic, this site noted, in giant text, the massive potential promise of Ivermectin in confronting this pandemic. That is the only medicine I broke the big text out for. As a general rule, the science stuff, particularly in biochemistry and molecular biology that you see here, will be first rate.

The German town of Ostfildern in the district of Esslingen near Stuttgart, issued a “general decree” to ensure that the ban on assembly in Germany is observed, allowing the use of physical violence or the use of weapons on any protestor.

A South African woman suffering from “poorly controlled” HIV who also had COVID-19 for nine months saw the CCP virus develop at least 21 mutations while in her body, a recent preprint study found.

Hospitals in multiple countries reportedly declined to treat a 3-year-old boy with a serious heart condition because his parents weren’t vaccinated against COVID-19.

South Africa is done with Covid after Omicron burns out.

U.S. govt spent over $2.3 million injecting puppies with cocaine.

The Fulton County, Georgia, district attorney is asking for the FBI’s help in providing security for buildings and staff one day after former President Donald Trump called prosecutors investigating him “racists” and said his supporters should hold “the biggest protests we have ever had” in cities like Atlanta if the prosecutors “do anything wrong or illegal.”

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) acknowledged it has over 920 million firearms records, with almost all of them digitized, raising the question of how that is different from the banned practice of having a national registry.

From Gab, “According to Alex Jones, his streaming platform http://Banned.video was created by Israelis who expect nothing in return. Laughable. The Fuentes streaming platform looks similar to the infowars one and is operated by the same team of Jews. Was it designed by Israelis as well? There are some hidden politics happening here. I don’t know what they are nor do I care, but the assertion that Fuentes is a political threat to the Zionists is betrayed by the bizarre level of support he enjoys from some of the worst frothing at the mouth Israel first Jews in America.” It is referencing this next video, which some think was a reveal designed to blunt any later revelations of Israeli intelligence involvement in Jones’ operation. Now if it comes out an Israeli built his platform it is old news.

ADL quietly changed its definition of racism to exclude white people.

California Gov. Gavin Newsom, who three years ago placed a moratorium on executions, now is moving to dismantle the United States’ largest death row by moving all condemned inmates to other prisons within two years so he can turn the section at San Quentin State Prison into a “positive, healing environment.”

Tens of thousands left without Internet as multiple bullets hit Oakland Xfinity fiber cable. Shooter was seen on video pointing a gun out of a car and firing 17 shots.

Street gangs are behind the hits on Cargo Trains that have netted handguns and shotguns recently.

California firefighter shot and killed while battling dumpster fire. His company showed up on the call, extinguished the fire, and shots rang out and he fell. No suspect no motive.

New Jersey revokes law that made it illegal to have sex while HIC infected without disclosing it to your partner.

Thieves steal everything from New York City Rite-Aide and the store shuts down for good.

Farming insider warns the coming food shortages are going to be far worse than we’re being told. For the first time, I was in a big box store and they had no steaks in the display, and when I got to a canned goods aisle for sauces, one entire side of the aisle had just a little bit of stuff on the ground level, and all the shelves above, usually packed with pallets of reserve supplies up fifteen or twenty feet, was entirely empty. I checked out canned meat, like Chicken and Tuna, and it looked good, so I held back from buying even more than I already have stocked. But it was surprising.

The millions spent on the second mansion at Canadian Prime Minister’s vacation residence, Harrington Lake, was built in response to Trudeau’s marital trouble.

Jeff Bezos’s ex-wife MacKenzie Scott sells $8.5B worth of Amazon stock. What does Cabal know is coming that they told her to do that?

Pope Francis says taxation is an important tool for ‘wealth redistribution.’

In Australia, the source of tens of millions of dollars in electoral funding remains a secret, with political parties not disclosing where more than a third of their income comes from.

After delivering essential aid to Tonga, the Australian Navy’s HMAS Adelaide suffered a complete power failure, leaving it stranded and forcing some crew members to sleep above deck. Were there UAPs in the area at the time?

Manhunt underway in Germany after 2 police shot dead during traffic stop. I would assume surveillance knows exactly who it is. If it is never solved, those cops knew something, or were deemed a threat of some sort, or Cabal wanted to send the local department a message. Update – suspect arrested after being found through, “intensive, undercover search methods,” two officers shot had been in an unmarked car.

Lebanon uncovers more than 15 Israeli spy networks. Mossad has been cleaning house. Would one faction in Mossad purge the other by burning their assets?

New Gates Foundation trustee led plot to overthrow Zimbabwean leader alongside US gov’t.

In the past 18 months military leaders have toppled the governments of Mali, Chad, Guinea, Sudan and now, Burkina Faso. New York Times wonders, Why Now?

Once the richest man in Asia, China Evergrande’s founder Hui Ka Yan, now watches as his company faces insolvency.

Some of former President Trump’s closest allies have questioned why the U.S. would side with Kyiv over Moscow and expressed skepticism that it’s worth pouring American resources into the conflict at all. And the neocon war machine cried.

NJ gym owner Ian Smith, who stayed open during lockdowns, is running for Congress.

North Las Vegas Mayor John Lee is leaving the Democratic Party and joining the GOP.

Five months after the end of the US airlift stranded them in Afghanistan, some 156 dogs and 133 cats are finally on board an Il-76 chartered from a Russian transport company Aviacon Zitotrans, which departed Kabul on Sunday and is bound for Vancouver, Canada.

Another Democratic lawmaker decides to call it quits ahead of 2022. Jim Cooper of Tennessee.

New Jersey RINO US Representative Chris Smith faces a challenge after Trump calls him out.

The Republican candidate endorsed by former President Donald Trump has hauled in over $1 million as she prepares to challenge Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney.

President Trump will be at CPAC in Orlando February 24-27, 2022.

We are fortunate to be getting regular statements from President Donald J. Trump to lift our spirits, which we can post here, straight from his News Aggregator on his website located here, complete with its own news stories. You can also get more statements from President Trump via email by signing up here.

AT&T is closing the very popular One America News Network (OAN) because too many people are watching. They couldn’t put up with that any longer. Conservatives/Republicans should boycott Direct TV, and while you’re at it, “Concast’s” Xfinity as well. These are Radical Left Lunatics who are destroying our Nation!

If the Vice President (Mike Pence) had “absolutely no right” to change the Presidential Election results in the Senate, despite fraud and many other irregularities, how come the Democrats and RINO Republicans, like Wacky Susan Collins, are desperately trying to pass legislation that will not allow the Vice President to change the results of the election? Actually, what they are saying, is that Mike Pence did have the right to change the outcome, and they now want to take that right away. Unfortunately, he didn’t exercise that power, he could have overturned the Election!

Spread r/K Theory, because the GOP Establishment is Cabal’s greatest weapon.