We've launched a fresh offer for subscribers meaning you can get full unlimited access to the Southern Daily Echo website for just £1 for a month.

And if that's not enough of a deal - you could alternatively sign up for an annual subscription for the price of £49.50 for a year instead of £99.

This means you will be able to gain full access to our website and read as much of our exclusive Southampton news and sports coverage as you want.

Our reporters cover the stories that matter most - from championing independent business to the latest trials at Southampton Crown Court, and everything in between.

Read more: Fundraiser launched to save Southampton children's park from closing

When you subscribe you'll also be able to play new online puzzles every week.

Subscribe by following the link here. You will then get two options to pay monthly or annually.

You'll then be prompted to add your email address and payment details.

Once completed you'll be able to enjoy all our quality content.

It's more important than ever to stay informed and up to date with the latest news and here at the Southern Daily Echo we passionately believe in the value of good trusted journalism and providing in-depth local news coverage.

If you share that belief you can experience the benefits of unlimited advert-light news access from journalists you know and trust on your favourite devices.

With a digital subscription you will experience less advertising. This means faster loading pages and ultimately a much better user experience.

T&Cs apply. Offer valid on digital subscriptions only. Offer ends 16th March 2022 at 23:59pm GMT. Subscription auto-renews unless cancelled. After the one-month trial period, monthly subscription will be charged at £4.99 per month. After the one-year trial period, annual digital subscription will be charged at £52per year. All subscriptions can be cancelled and refunded within 14 days of purchase. Newsquest Media Group reserves the right to change or remove the offer at any time. Please see www.newsquest.co.uk/digital-subscription-terms-and-conditions for full details.