Ms Miller, leader of the new True and Fair Party, accused the PM of allowing "a culture of flouting Covid rules to flourish in No10". She also called for Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick’s resignation, accusing the force of putting itself "in a position of appearing to be acting politically".

Initial findings into senior civil servant Sue Gray’s long-awaited report were published today, renewing frustrations of both rebel Conservative MPs and members of the public. In a statement afterwards, Ms Miller said: “It is clear to everyone that the Prime Minister permitted a culture of flouting Covid rules to flourish in Number 10. “I cannot believe that Conservative MPs or their constituency associations will tolerate Johnson’s presence in Downing Street much longer – voters in the country certainly will not. “The chaos we are witnessing is a direct result of systemic failures in how we hold the Prime Minister, MPs and holders of public office to account.” In her 12-page report, Ms Gray criticised gatherings, saying they "represent a serious failure to observe not just the high standards expected of those working at the heart of Government but also of the standards expected of the entire British population at the time".

The Metropolitan Police announced their investigation into the alleged illegal parties last week. The Gray Report was limited as a result in the extent to which it could reference key events in the Partygate allegations, as they were subject to police investigation. The report stated: “No conclusions should be drawn, or inferences made from this other than it is now for the police to consider the relevant material in relation to those incidents.” The report has also yet to be released to the public in full. Ms Miller appeared to condemn this part of the process, stating: “The Gray Report makes it clear that Johnson still faces extremely serious questions but it has been released in a form that obscures that damning fact. “The Prime Minister should stop treating the public as children – the full report must be released at once. READ MORE: Theresa May gives Boris Johnson dressing down after Sue Gray report [ANALYSIS]

“The role of the Metropolitan Police should come under scrutiny; having declined to investigate for so long, the Met have now ineptly put themselves in a position of appearing to be acting politically. “Allowing the perception of police-independence to be eroded is the latest in a career-long catalogue of calamitous errors from Cressida Dick who should now have the decency to resign.” Appearing in the House of Commons to respond to the report, Mr Johnson apologised and said: “I get it and will fix it.” He added: “This is a moment when we must look at ourselves in the mirror and we must learn. "While the Metropolitan Police must yet complete their investigation, and that means there are no details of specific events in Sue Gray's report, I of course accept Sue Gray's general findings in full, and above all her recommendation that we must learn from these events and act now." DON'T MISS: UK willing to support EU in a crisis ‒ but few would reciprocate! [ANALYSIS]

POLL: Is the Sue Gray report a disaster for Boris Johnson? [POLL]

Sue Gray has stash of evidence 'in storage' ready to unleash [INSIGHT]