Valentine's Day is just two weeks away and now that love is in the air it's time to get prepared for the most romantic day of the year.

Still got a few last-minute bits to get, or not sure what to buy someone? We have found the best present ideas and personalised gifts for that special someone in your life.

There is something for everyone within these gifts, from personalised prints to jewellery and gin glasses.

Here are some of the best personalised gifts for Valentine's Day this year (Canva)
• Valentine's Day 2022: Heart-shaped jewellery from Pandora, H Samuel and more
• Valentine's Day decorations from The Works, Not On The High Street and more
• Aldi Valentine's Day 2022: food, drink and gifts you can buy

Prezzybox has a huge array of personalised gifts on sale.

We love this heart map, where a significant place in the UK can be chosen and a special message added to make this something your loved one will cherish.

If that special someone is a chocolate-lover, these personalised Toblerone bars are the perfect gift.

This champagne coupe glass is great for a Valentine's Day celebration and two names can be added.

There is also lots of jewellery on Prezzybox, our favourites include this double heart necklace which comes in gold, rose gold and silver or this square locket which can be engraved.

Not On The High Street

This 'Love Is An Adventure' Couples Print is the perfect gift for a Galentine or Valentine.

The print is drawn from a full-length photograph and can include the couple's names.

If you want something simple but personal, this 'You & Me' coaster set can have a date written on it in a beautiful calligraphy font.

These Lunch Break Coupons are a great way to inject romance into your working from home life, or to give to a friend who you want to treat!
• The best dating apps to use ahead of Valentine's Day 2022
• Valentine's Day 2022: Record players for a vinyl lover from AO, HMV and Urban Outfitters

Celebrate being the power couple you are with this Personalised Famous Couples Poster, which features your names alongside eight famous couples printed on A2 paper.

Light up that special someone's office space or bedside table with this Personalised Acrylic Light which lights up in seven different colours.

What better way to show your other half your love than wrapping their gifts in their personalised gift wrap.

Add anyone's face onto the gift wrap and watch them unwrap their presents with joy!

Give your loved one the gift of a better night's sleep with this personalised silk sleep mask.

The silk fabric helps skin to retain moisture and minimises facial friction for a restful night's sleep.

For those gin lovers out there, write any message and name onto this gin glass made from high-quality crystal glass.

And for those foodie couples, this gorgeous heart-shaped wood chopping board comes with an engraved name and is great for serving appetisers or snacks.

These scatter cushions in velvet can be personalised with white threat, giving a homely and personal touch to any home.