However, another source told Express.co.uk the PM was far from out of the woods - with storm clouds “still gathering”. Mr Johnson faced the music in Parliament on Monday after the publication of an update on the report prepared by civil servant Sue Gray into alleged gatherings on government premises during Covid restrictions.

Ms Gray was limited in what she was able to say given the events in question are the subject of a police investigation, admitting: “It is not possible at present to provide a meaningful report". Nevertheless, the document published on Monday contained some potentially damaging revelations, not least that police are investigating one event in the flat above Number 10. After his appearance in Parliament, Mr Johnson attended a meeting of the powerful 1922 Committee of Tory backbenchers. One of those present later said: “The meeting went extraordinarily well. Very little dissent. Indeed, lots of support.

“Mind you, it's only a brief respite. He's got to take advantage of the next days/weeks to try to build a positive narrative.” Conceding that the May elections would be “difficult”, the insider added: “The best way forward for him is to seize the issue of Brexit and deal with it ruthlessly until we have resolved the Northern Ireland Protocol. “I think a lot is going to happen before then. Donaldson will no doubt bring the assembly down. “He will refuse to cooperate with a Sinn Fein first minister.” JUST IN: Rishi Sunak's relationship with Boris Johnson - PM's natural successor

Another backbencher suggested while the events of yesterday were unlikely to have pushed many colleagues to pen letters of no confidence, “the storm clouds are still gathering”. It would be deeply problematic for Mr Johnson if his insistence that no rules had been broken proved to be at odds with the conclusions of the police, the second source said. Mr Johnson had faced fierce criticism from opposition MPs, including opposition leader Sir Keir Starmer, as well as some of his own. Most prominent of these was, arguably, Theresa May, his predecessor as PM, who asked: “Either my right honourable friend had not read the rules or didn't understand what they meant and others around him, or they didn't think the rules applied to Number 10. Which was it?" DON'T MISS

Boris Johnson LIVE: Tory party reeling as minister RESIGNS and issues [LIVE] 

Brexit Britain to lead way in £1.8TRN global business [REPORT] 

POLL: Is the Sue Gray report a disaster for Boris Johnson? [VOTE]

Aaron Bell, Tory MP for Newcastle-under-Lyme, recalled attending his grandmother’s funeral in 2020. He added: “I drove for three hours from Staffordshire to Kent, there were only 10 people at her funeral, many people who loved her had to watch online. "I didn't hug my siblings, I didn't hug my parents, I gave the eulogy and then I didn't even go to her house for a cup of tea, I drove back three hours from Kent to Staffordshire. "Does the prime minister think I'm a fool?"