Former Labour Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has mocked the SNP's leader at Westminister after Ian Blackford was expelled from the House of Commons for branding Prime Minister Boris Johnson a liar. Mr Straw told Sky News: "I mean Ian Blackford is a kind of pantomime character really.

Ms Burley fired back: "Oh, no, he isn't! "Oh, yes, he is!" replied the Labour grandee. The Sky host asked "But did he do the right thing? You know, he would say is a man of conviction." Mr Straw argued: "Yeah, you can make conviction point without having to break the rules. That's my view." JUST IN: 'Spewing atomic waste!' Russia building nuclear missiles 'considered too dangerous by US'

On Monday, MRBlackford was ordered to leave the House of Commons after accusing Boris Johnson of having "wilfully misled" MPs over the Downing Street party allegations. The SNP Westminster leader was repeatedly asked by Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle to withdraw the claim, as it is considered against parliamentary etiquette to make such an assertion. Mr Blackford replied that the Prime Minister "may have inadvertently misled the House", but Sir Lindsay asked: "To help me help the House, you've withdrawn your earlier comment and replaced it with inadvertently?" Mr Blackford replied: "It's not my fault if the Prime Minister can't be trusted to tell the truth."

Earlier, Mr Blackford had said: "So here we have it. The long-awaited Sue Gray report, what a farce. "It was carefully engineered to be a fact-finding exercise, with no conclusions. Now we find it's a fact-finding exercise with no facts. "So let's talk facts. The Prime Minister has told the House that all guidance was completely followed, there was no party, Covid rules were followed and that 'I believed it was a work event'. "Nobody, nobody believed it then. And nobody, nobody believes you now, Prime Minister. That is the crux, no ifs, no buts, he has wilfully misled Parliament." DON'T MISS 

How the US could retaliate against Russia [REVEALED]

US in broadside at UK as Moscow tears alliance apart [INSIGHT]

Russia war fears LIVE: Ukraine troops show off terrifying British arms [BLOG]

The SNP's Westminster leader told ITV's Good Morning Britain on Tuesday he took "no pleasure in having to leave the chamber" after he refused to back down on his claims. "It seems, I have to say, slightly perverse that I'm the one that is to be thrown out of the House of Commons on the basis of standing up and telling the truth," he said. "Now, if I had withdrawn what I'd said yesterday in the House of Commons I would have been guilty of doing what the Prime Minister has done, and that would have been lying to everybody watching. "One of these days the Prime Minister is going to have to accept that he has abused the trust that was put in him when he became Prime Minister. He should have gone by now. And this morning, my message to Tory MPs, they're going to have to do the job because, quite simply, this man is not fit for purpose. He's not fit to be Prime Minister."