Andrew Brady will today face a further case management hearing in court after his December 2021 trial for harassing a journalist was postponed.

The former reality star, who denies harassing former Sun executive editor Dan Wootton by causing him to fear violence, first found fame on The Apprentice in 2017 before being fired by Alan Sugar after the eighth task.

He signed up for a stint in the Celebrity Big Brother house in January 2018 alongside the likes of Ann Widdecombe, Malika Haqq and Courtney Act, before finding love with then-Love Island presenter Caroline Flack, who tragically took her own life in February 2020.

As Brady's case is due to be heard at Sheffield Crown Court today, what has the former project engineer from Cheshire been doing with his life?

Brady is an ex-reality star who had a high-profile relationship with TV presenter Caroline Flack two years before her death.

He first stepped into the spotlight on BBC One's The Apprentice, where he quickly made headlines for romping with fellow castmate Anisa Topan, who was engaged at the time.

The pair were both fired in the same week and Anisa went on to marry her fiance, while Andrew enjoyed the taste of fame so much that he then signed up to Celebrity Big Brother in early 2018.

In the house he became firm friends with drag act star Courtney Act - real name Shane Jenek - with the pair playing up rumours of a possible romance. After he was evicted, Andrew joked there was a part of him attracted to Shane's alter-ego.

"Yeah, my penis," he laughed. "Shane, top lad, best guy I know. Courtney, she's hot. But it takes three and a half hours and so much adhesive to look like that."

What happened between Andrew Brady and Caroline Flack?

Very shortly after leaving the CBB house, the rumour mill was spinning once again with reports that Andrew was dating presenter Caroline Flack.

Taking no notice of their 12-year age gap, Brady and Flack quickly went public with their relationship after meeting on a night out in East London in February 2018.

Less than three months later the pair were engaged, with Caroline flaunting a diamond ring and a tattoo of his initials just weeks after meeting.

But the couple's romance waxed and waned and they split several times.

They called it a day in December 2018, with Brady later quitting the UK to go travelling.

Caroline, meanwhile, found love again with tennis player Lewis Burton, but was arrested in December 2019 for allegedly assaulting him.

She pleaded not guilty at a hearing but was tragically found dead inside her London flat in February 2020, just before her trial was due to begin.

Where is Andrew Brady now?

Since returning home from his travels, Brady has kept a lower profile.

He denied a single count of harassment causing fear of violence in court last May.

He is alleged to have used social media to send threats and abuse to ex-Sun journalist Mr Wootton between February 15 and April 27 2021.

Prosecutor Laura Marshall said last May that the defendant had started harassing Mr Wootton around the anniversary of Caroline's death.

She said Brady accused Mr Wootton of being a murderer and had added Mr Wootton to a WhatsApp group along with other journalists and his own sister, who is a serving South Yorkshire Police officer and is a prosecution witness.

Ms Marshall said Brady had also set up social media pages in memory of his ex and had staged a protest outside Sheffield Town Hall.