The family of a 'brave' little girl, who underwent successful treatment for a brain tumour, say they were devastated to find out that her cancer has returned.

Doctors initially thought Lily Harding, from Macclesfield, who was aged nine at the time, was suffering with lockdown anxiety when she presented with vomiting in March 2020.

But mum, Toni Jenkins, persisted with GP and hospital visits, as she feared something was seriously wrong with her daughter.

Scans later revealed that Lily in fact had a tumour in the left frontal lobe of her brain, which Toni described as the size of a 'large egg.'

After undergoing three major operations, as well as chemotherapy and radiotherapy at Manchester Children's Hospital, Lily, who was described as a 'true warrior' was given the all clear in April 2021.

But in a heartbreaking turn of events, a three-month check up earlier this month revealed the cancer has now spread to her spine.

Toni says she and her family are still coming to terms with the latest diagnosis, but have been left absolutely devastated.

"We’re obviously still in shock and absolutely heartbroken but trying to stay brave for Lily and focus on saving her life," she said.

Lily was first diagnosed with a brain tumour in August 2020 after several visits to her GP and hospital emergency departments.

"In January 2020 she started being sick every morning and at the start of lockdown in March she was really bad," Toni said.

"The doctors at first thought it was anxiety because of coronavirus and lockdown. Then they thought it might be acid reflux.

"In August she was so bad that we took her to the hospital but she was sent home.

"We took her back the next morning because she was still sick and so they gave her a CT scan which showed a massive tumour in her left frontal lobe.

"It was about the size of a large egg."

Toni said she and her family were overcome with shock after learning that Lily's sickness was in fact cancer.

"We were absolutely devastated. Everything happened so fast," she said.

"The next day she was having surgery. We just had to stay strong for her.

"She couldn’t really have anyone in the hospital with her. She had to nominate two people but she has four parents as me and her dad are separated.

"Lily was just stuck on a ward and because of covid they didn’t have the normal entertainment.

"Despite it all though I want to say what a lovely, bright, happy, strong and brave little girl Lily is - she’s coped with everything like a true warrior.

"All the nurses adore her at the hospital even though she keeps them on their toes. She used to help the student nurses take her observations."

By April 2021, after three major brain surgeries and extensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy, doctors told Lily and her family that she was effectively 'cancer free.'

She has had to go back for three-monthly scans which had remained clear until November.

"But the January scan showed the cancer had returned to the fluid in her spine," Toni said.

"She has a Atypical Teratoid Rhabdoid Tumour (ATRT) which is a cancer of the Central Nervous System and is extremely rare and aggressive.

"Lily has a couple of options left but the chances are very slim. We are doing research and trying to find other treatment options."

Toni says she now wants to raise awareness of the symptoms of her daughter's cancer in the hope that other parents don't go through the same trauma.

She believes the family may need to consider alternative treatment options for Lily, which could cost thousands of pounds.

"If the option is that there is treatment we are going to need help raising the funds to take her," Toni said.

"A family friend set up a gofundme page when she was first diagnosed because we were hoping to take her to Disneyland but we still haven’t been able to do that because of covid.

"If holidays are no longer an option we just want to make sure she is happy and have the best time she can.

"Our community has been absolutely fantastic and very supportive.

"We’re not giving up and we will do absolutely anything we can to save our beautiful daughter, the world will be a lot darker without her."