If you're considering booking a last-minute holiday for half term, the good news is that you don't need to break the bank in the process.

Travel firms including TUI, easyJet, Jet2, On the Beach, Loveholidays and more all have plenty of holiday deals up for grabs, including popular holiday destinations such as France, Spain, Greece, Turkey and more.

To give you a helping hand we've rounded up some of the best offers we found, based on half term dates of February 14-18, and the two weekends either side. (Half term dates can differ depending on your local area and school, so double check before booking).

Oh, and if it's winter weather you're looking to escape, we've also got a guide to some of the best hot and sunny destinations in February that's worth having on your radar.

Check out our top pick of deals - and happy holiday hunting!

Sign up to the Mirror's travel newsletter for more deals and holiday inspiration.

Turkey: On the Beach has seven-night holidays from £161pp - book here.

Canary Islands: Loveholidays has seven-night holidays from £204pp - book here.

Balearic Islands: easyJet has five-night holidays from £241pp - book here.

Spain: TUI has five-night holidays from £249pp - book here.

Cyprus: Loveholidays has seven-night holidays from £259pp - book here.

Portugal: Jet2holidays has four-night breaks from £275pp - book here.

Greece: TUI has five-night holidays from £358pp - book here.

France: On the Beach has seven-night holidays from £389pp - book here.

Deals above are based on a family of four travelling and sharing a room.

Don't be disheartened if you can't quite find an offer that works for you. You may want to bookmark our guide to the latest holiday deals which we regularly update with the latest sales and discounts we think you'll love, for both holidays abroad and staycations.

If you are planning a holiday, it's worth noting that new UK travel rules are coming into force on February 11, just in time for half term.

This includes some key changes such as Covid day two tests being axed for fully vaccinated travellers, while those who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated will no longer be required to self-isolate when they return to the UK.

For children who are unvaccinated, the GOV UK website states that "Children aged 5 to 17 have to follow the testing and quarantine rules for people who qualify as fully vaccinated on arrival in England."

It's also worth noting that travel restrictions and entry rules continue to apply during the pandemic, even if there are an increasing number of countries opening to UK holidaymakers.

Always check the latest Foreign Office advice for your chosen destination before booking or going on a trip abroad, as this includes important information such as entry rules, local Covid restrictions and more.