EA Sports has removed Manchester United striker Mason Greenwood from FIFA 22 with immediate effect.

Greater Manchester Police issued a statement on Sunday confirming a man has been arrested on suspicion of rape and assault following allegations about the Manchester United and England footballer.

Greater Manchester Police confirmed an arrest had been made and declared: "An investigation was launched and following enquiries we can confirm a man in his 20s has since been arrested on suspicion of rape and assault.

"He remains in custody for questioning. Enquiries are ongoing."

Following the allegations, United suspended Greenwood, saying the star will not play or train "until further notice."

They added: "We will not make any further comment until the facts have been established. Manchester United does not condone violence of any kind."

On Tuesday, February 1, 2022, EA Sports released a database update for FIFA 22 on all platforms, including PlayStation, Xbox and PC, which removed Greenwood from all offline modes in the game with immediate effect.

But, the 20-year-old's FIFA 22 Ultimate Team item remains active, with players able to obtain and trade his item in the FUT 22 internal transfer market system.

Nike have also suspended their relationship with Greenwood following his arrest. In a statement to the BBC, Nike said: "We have suspended our relationship with Mason Greenwood.

"We are deeply concerned by the disturbing allegations and will continue to closely monitor the situation.”

On Monday, Greater Manchester Police confirmed that detectives investigating the case had been given extra time to interview Greenwood over the allegations.

A full statement from Greater Manchester Police read: "Detectives have been granted additional time to speak to a man in his 20s who is being held on suspicion of rape and assault of a woman.

"The suspect was arrested yesterday (Sunday 30 January) afternoon and remains in custody.

"Enquiries are ongoing and the victim is being offered specialist support.

"If you're a victim of domestic abuse, or are concerned about someone you know, please use our online reporting facility or use our LiveChat facility on our website, or call 101. In an emergency that's on-going or life is in danger, always dial 999.

"Some victims may not feel comfortable speaking with the police, or may feel they need support to come forward and make a report. Greater Manchester Victims’ Services can provide independent emotional and practical support for anyone affected by crime.

"You can contact the service by visiting the website on https://www.gmvictims.org.uk/ or calling 0161 200 1950."

*If you are suffering from domestic abuse, you can seek help and support by calling Refuge on their 24-hour hotline on 0808 2000 247 or visit nationaldahelpline.org.uk