Speeding is a huge problem for road users across the UK.

There are different thresholds for police forces across England and when they decide to act on speeding offences, depending on what speed you are going at the time..

Speeding accounts for 74% of motoring offences in the UK, according to the most recent government data.

Drivers can sometimes stray over the speed limit without realising they have nudged the pedal a bit too much or haven't noticed a speed sign.

This could mean they are landed with a hefty fine, as road safety is so important.

So how much can you go over the speed limit, depending on where you are in England?

Vehicle leasing company Rivervale looked into the limits set by different local police forces across the country.

They found that, generally speaking, the threshold for action against speeders is 10% over the speed limit, plus an extra two miles per hour (mph).

For people driving in a 40mph zone, the camera would be activated when their vehicle reaches 46mph.

The full list is as follows:
• Wiltshire - Devices not set at any particular speed. Officers use their own discretion when setting the threshold
• Lincolnshire - +2 mph up to 66mph and +3% for all speeds higher than 66mph

The Mirror has been in contact with the remaining police forces for comment on their policy and hopes to publish this information soon, so check back for more.

How much can I be fined for speeding?

The smallest penalty for speeding is a £100 fine and three penalty points added to your licence.

If you plead not guilty to speeding the case goes to court. A court can fine you up to £2,000.

The government said : "The amount you’re fined depends on what the speed limit was and how much over it you were driving. It’s usually a percentage of your weekly income, up to a maximum of £1,000 (£2,500 if you were driving on a motorway).

"You could also be disqualified from driving or have your licence suspended."

According to government data, 48% of cars exceeded the limit on motorways, while 9% of cars exceeded the limit on national speed limit single carriageways.

An estimated 52% of cars were over the speed limit on roads with a 30mph limit.