Logan Paul has claimed he rejected the chance to face Floyd Mayweather in a rematch this year - telling the ring legend to "f*** himself".

The pair fought in June last year in an exhibition with Paul surviving the eight-round distance against the retired star.

Mayweather will return to the ring with an exhibition planned on a helipad at the Burj Al Arab Jumeirah hotel in Dubai later this month.

But Paul has claimed he was offered the chance to renew his rivalry with Mayweather in the Middle East.

"They asked me if I wanted to fight Floyd Mayweather again, Jeff did... one of Floyd's guys," Paul told Maverick Club. "On top of that Burj Al Arab with that tennis court in February.

"I told him to f*** himself, first of all you have to pay me the rest of the money that you owe me. Second of all go f*** yourself, but what if I give it to Jake?"

Despite being expected to earn over £15million for the exhibition, Paul has since claimed that Mayweather still owes him money for the clash.

He later doubled down on his claim on social media by branding the former undefeated champion a "rat" for not holding his end of the financial deal.

And UFC president Dana White has offered his theory as to why Mayweather could have allegedly withheld payment to the YouTube star.

"Well, here's what happens when you go in and do these fights," White explained on the Full Send podcast.,"You do these fights that are exhibitions or whatever, the commission isn't overseeing it.

Would you like to see Logan Paul face Floyd Mayweather again? Let us know in the comments section below

"Let's say I did a fight with Mike [Tyson], I've got Mike fighting Francis or something, the athletic commission gets the money upfront, so they pay the fighters, they don't have to wait.

"That was the big problem in the past is that these boxing promoters would come in and they wouldn't make as much money as they thought they were going to do.

"So they would stiff the fighters and not pay the guys and that's why these regulations are in place in these different states."

Paul has launched a successful boxing career on the back of his YouTube platform, fighting streaming rival KSI twice before facing Mayweather last year.

He has now accepted an offer from Brazilian YouTuber Whindersson to stage another event on social media, as he looks to move on from his bout against Mayweather.

YouTube star 'Money Kicks' is now in the final stages of talks to face Mayweather in Dubai later this month and has begun training for the event.