Megan McKenna has been sunning it up in the Maldives with her boyfriend Josh Riley.

And proving that Megan's beau - who never shows his face on social media - is one romantic man, he treated the former TOWIE star to a private dinner on the beach - prompting her fans to ask if he bent the knee.

After singer Megan revealed on Instagram that her partner pulled out all the stops for them to dine under the stars in the gorgeous location, the reality TV name was met with questions on if she is engaged.

Below the gallery of snaps that showed the set up, she penned: "He surprised me with a candlelit dinner."

Several of her followers were keen to know if the alfresco meal, which she donned a white ensemble to, was followed by a marriage proposal.

One asked: "Did he propose?”

More added that they thought a proposal was imminent, by adding: "Seeing scenes like this… I feel a ring coming" and "You’re gonna marry this one Meg xx"

After previous relationships have played out in the public eye, Megan is keen to keep her romance with Josh relatively private and low-key.

Josh, 26, is the director of luxury fashion brand Yelir World, but rarely makes an appearance on the star's social media accounts.

In 2020, a source claiming to be close to the love birds confessed the pair were "totally smitten" with one another in the early stages of their romance.

"The pair of them are taking it slow but they have been talking about the future," they told OK!

"Megan seems so settled and happy now, Josh has made her feel really happy."

Megan has become known for reinventing herself throughout the years.

Her first brush with fame was in 2009 when she was just 16-years-old and reached the semi-finals of Britain's Got Talent as part of the music group Harmony.

Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here .

That same year she appeared in The Inbetweeners and in 2010 she made an appearance in TOWIE.

In 2015, Megan appeared on the third series of MTV reality series Ex on the Beach, and returned for the fourth series.

Megan then appeared on Celebrity Big Brother in 2016 and even received a formal warning for her behaviour.

That year she joined the cast of TOWIE, which she starred in with her then-boyfriend Pete Wicks, before quitting in 2017 after their breakup.

Megan then launched her music career and in 2019 appeared on Celebrity X Factor, which she won.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.