Captain America star Chris Evans is rumoured to be dating Alba Baptista.

The actor, 40, - best known for his work in the Marvel Cinematic Universe - has been linked to several A-list celebrities throughout the course of his career.

And now it's rumoured that he's dating Portuguese actress Baptista, 24 - who plays the lead role in the Netflix series Warrior Nun.

The pair follow each other on Instagram and Baptista is even following his brother Scott Evans, 38.

Neither party have confirmed the speculation that they are dating.

Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here .

The pair sparked speculation that they're dating on social media with posts by both parties arousing suspicion from eagle-eyed fans.

It's been reported that he followed her on Instagram towards the end of 2020. She's said to have followed him back in June last year, according to the Daily Mail.

The outlet reports that last week Evans posted a video on his Instagram story for an eighth grade class at the Jewish Foundation School that appeared to be filmed at a hotel room in Portugal - which has prompted speculation he was visiting the actress in her home country.

It shows him filming a message for pupils, with the actor seen wearing a blue jumper and a gold necklace.

It was speculated from the background of the video that he was staying at the Four Seasons hotel in Lisbon, with this leading to a rumour that he was there to visit Baptista.

The outlet states there have been reports that she spent New Year's Eve in Los Angeles, with it speculated that photos from her trip may have been taken in Evans' backyard.

The Mirror approached reps of Evans and Baptista for comment.

Evans has a number of upcoming projects, with some due to be released this year, including animated film Lightyear.

The film, set to be released in June, is said to be an origin story for the fictional human character Buzz Lightyear, who inspired the action figure in the Toy Story films.

Baptista is set to reprise her role as Ava Silva in the second season of Warrior Nun. The character has supernatural powers which see her to join an ancient order of warrior nuns in the fantasy drama.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.