Carol Vorderman has claimed that tens of thousands of lies are told about her on a daily basis – but she has vowed to ignore them all in pursuit of happiness.

The 61-year-old television presenter has built up a huge following of fans over the past 40 years after debuting on Countdown was back in 1982.

But as many a celebrity knows, fame comes at a price – and an apparent need for even the kindest of fans to form opinions about someone without ever meeting them.

Carol has hinted that she is often the subject of speculation and gossip due to her life in the spotlight – but she has shared a pearl of wisdom with her followers on Instagram.

At the start of the week, the star shared a quote by the ancient Chinese philosopher, Lao Tzu, which states: “Those who know when they have enough are rich.”

Sharing the quote online, the star added a message of her own, reading: "'ENOUGH.......my favourite word along with CHANGE. (Forever is my least favourite as it's utterly meaningless btw, there's no such thing. Just scary pressure for an impossibility). ENOUGH Ask me how loved I am? I'll tell you I'm loved ENOUGH.

"Ask me how much money I have? I will always have told you ENOUGH whether I've been wealthy or poor (and I've known both very well).

"ENOUGH means I am satiated, I am smiling, I am as rich as Croesus in my soul."

But in a more lengthy statement alongside this statement, Carol made cryptic reference to “thousands” and even “tens of thousands” of lies being spouted about her each day.

She wrote: “I don't often post this blah blah kind of stuff cos it makes me roll my eyes and yawn, but I came across the quote from Lao Tzu this morning and it's rare to find something nowadays which uses the word ENOUGH.

“It's all push push push nowadays, in other words telling you that you're not enough.

“The secret, in my humble opinion, is being enough for you, not for anyone else. Set your standards for you, walk alone in your thoughts, don't worry about who thinks what about you. They don't matter. Truly don't matter. I have a thousand gross opinions or lies given or told about me every day (sometimes tens of thousands in a day).”

She continued: “I never read them for one key reason. I don't care. Truly don't care about those opinions. Ever. Unless they are from people I admire. But then people I admire wouldn't give an opinion unless I asked them for it. Q.E.D. Ha.”

She went on: “Take risks. Have patience. Be not afraid. Some things work. Some don't. Know it. Forgive yourself. And every day take stock and mark it out of 10. Set your system.

"Mine is 7/10 (or more)and it's MY ENOUGH. Yours might be different from mine and that's the point. It's YOUR ENOUGH.

“There, in that place you are rich. Happy days.”

Carol then vowed that she would be going off to enjoy a cup of tea and a walk following the conclusion of her post.

Her post won an avalanche of praise from fans, with one writing in the comments section of her post: “Wise words really made me think... have a wonderful walk.”