Nat Phillips has revealed why he opted to drop down into the Championship, after agreeing a loan deal with Bournemouth.

The Liverpool centre-half will spend the rest of the campaign with the Cherries after a deadline day move to Dorset.

January had seen plenty of speculation swirl around Phillips' future, with a loan switch always likely on deadline day given his lack of playing time for the Reds, who had wanted £15million for a permanent sale.

But his decision to dip into the second tier, despite Premier League clubs such as West Ham and Leicester being interested, might have raised a few eyebrows.

Liverpool will receive a loan fee of £1.5m for Phillips with an additional £250,000 if Bournemouth are promoted this season.

Will Phillips help Bournemouth secure automatic promotion to the Premier League? Let us know in the comments

Speaking to Bournemouth's website, Phillips spoke of his reasoning behind joining Scott Parker's side.

The 24-year-old said: "Interest had been growing throughout the window and this was an option I was really excited about because of the club's ambition.

"I've heard a lot of good things about the club and I'm very happy to get started.

"I've had a period now where I've not seen a great deal of football or minutes. As a player, that's what you want to be doing. I'm hoping that, by coming here, I will get the opportunity to do so.

"It is true, it is difficult when you're not playing and I found it difficult after getting a taste for regular football last year.

"To then go back to not playing as much is hard, but I recognise that I need to go and get some minutes elsewhere and hopefully this is a move that suits all parties.

"Bournemouth have got a clear goal and all players are wanting to play in the Premier League.

"We have all got that clear common goal and we will be doing everything we can to achieve that."

Last season saw Phillips make his breakthrough at Anfield, after a string of injuries to centre-halves. He made 20 appearances in total, following lengthy lay-offs for Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez and Joel Matip.

But this term has proved far harder for Phillips to make an impression. The return to fitness of the aforementioned trio, combined with the arrival of Ibrahima Konate has pushed him further down the pecking order. He has made just three appearances.

Despite that lack of game time, he believes he has improved as a player under influential Reds' boss Jurgen Klopp.

Phillips added: "I would say that I have improved huge amounts in the time that I've been working underneath him and he's a great coach and manager.

"Off the field, he is a great person to have behind you. I am very fortunate to have benefited from that relationship with him."

Phillips could make his debut for his new club this Saturday when they host Boreham Wood in the FA Cup fourth round.

He is not cup-tied, having not been included in Liverpool's third round win over Shrewsbury last month.