It's been a frantic month in the transfer market, with Premier League clubs splashing the cash right up until Monday night's 11pm deadline.

Although there was the traditional late rush, a number of high-profile deals were signed off well in advance of then - with Liverpool wrapping up the biggest deal of the month with their capture of Luis Diaz for an initial £37.5m.

Newcastle spent more than any other club as they bolstered their survival bid by bringing in no less than five new players.

But there were a number of deals that failed to get the green light before the transfer window slammed shut at the start of the week.

Mirror Football takes a look at five deals in the Premier League that fell flat on a frantic deadline day...

Join the debate! Who do you think were the Premier League's biggest winners and losers in the January transfer window? Let us know here.

After refusing to commit to a new deal, Barcelona made moves to ship Ousmane Dembele out of the club this month.

But despite reported late interest from Chelsea, Barca struggled to find a suitor for their wantaway star.

Both Manchester United and Paris Saint-Germain failed to firm up their reported interest on deadline day - leaving Barca and Dembele stuck in their unhappy marriage for another few months.

Given that Dembele is due to be a free agent in the summer, it was always unlikely anyone would stump up the cash to buy him in January.

But that seemingly didn't stop a few tentative last-gasp inquiries - only for Barca's lavish demands to scupper any prospect of them recouping a chunk of the club-record £135million that they paid for the 24-year-old.

Despite strong interest from Newcastle and West Ham, a deadline day move away from Old Trafford failed to materialise for Jesse Lingard.

The Red Devils academy graduate is due to be a free agent in the summer, meaning United had no appetite to facilitate a loan deal for the 28-year-old.

According to reports, United were also adamant that they wouldn't help strengthen a potential top-four rival by allowing Lingard to rejoin West Ham for a second loan spell after his successful stint in East London last year.

They were, however, happy for Lingard to bring the curtain down early on his Old Trafford career with a switch to Newcastle - for a price.

But unfortunately for Lingard, United's excessive demands proved too rich even for Newcastle; condemning Lingard to another six months on the sidelines in a painful, drawn-out end to his dream Old Trafford career.

Fabio Carvalho was one of the most coveted players in the EFL this month, and it looked as though Liverpool had finally broken Fulham's reluctance to part with their bright young star.

But disaster struck when the Reds fell foul of the 11pm deadline - meaning the move, as it stands, is off.

However, there is a chance that Carvalho's dream switch to Anfield can still be salvaged.

Although a deal can no longer go through this month, Liverpool can still come to terms on a pre-contract agreement with the 19-year-old ahead of a summer move.

And both sides could avoid a tribunal if they agree to stick to the fee that they reportedly agreed.

But it's now a waiting game for all parties to see if the move will still get done after Monday night's unexpected late mishap.

One of the weirder deadline day moves, Alexander Isak's reported switch to Arsenal never came close to happening.

The Real Sociedad star was earmarked as the Gunners' primary target after Dusan Vlahovic snubbed Mikel Arteta's side in favour of staying in Italy with Juventus.

But there was barely a whisper of Isak's name on deadline day.

The Swedish ace had whipped fans into a frenzy after he was spotted in London with close friend and ex-Manchester United ace Adnan Januzaj over the weekend.

The Telegraph later revealed that Isak was simply on a shopping trip in the Capital with his Sociedad team-mate.

And after Arsenal failed to mount a serious bid for the 22-year-old, it's unlikely he'll be back in London anytime soon.

Manchester United goalkeeper Dean Henderson is another Premier League star who had been persistently linked with a move away in January.

But despite reports indicating that United were willing to sanction a loan exit, the Red Devils rebuffed a deadline day approach for the 24-year-old.

Newcastle were flirting with the idea of making a move for the shot-stopper on Monday before Watford made an eleventh-hour bid to take Henderson to Hertfordshire.

United weren't keen on losing a senior star so late in the day - meaning Henderson will spend the rest of the campaign as David de Gea's understudy.