Martyn Ford will finally square off against the 'Iranian Hulk' Sajad Gharibi in one of the most exciting celebrity boxing matches in recent history this April.

The 39-year-old from the West Midlands has been dubbed the 'world's scariest man', and towers over most at six-foot-eight and weighing 320lb.

Meanwhile, the Iranian Hulk is 40lb heavier although a slight bit shorter at six-foot-two, and they are both training hard to be ready to headline a massive night of boxing in London.

Elsewhere on the card are football stars Patrice Evra and Jamie O'Hara, as well as Love Island stars including amateur boxer Jack Fincham and AJ Bunker competing in a women's bout.

One-eyed Love Islander Theo Campbell will also step into the ring to face 2020 star Connagh Howard as the stars of the villa look to follow in Tommy Fury's footsteps.

It follows on the heels of social media boxing events including KSI vs Logan Paul, and will happen within weeks of the March 5 fight night between Deji Olatunji and Alex Wassabi.

Strongmen Eddie Hall and Thor Bjornsson are also set to clash early this year, although no date has been set as yet.

Here's all you need to know about the event...

When and where is Martyn Ford vs Iranian Hulk?

The event will take place at The O2 Arena on April 2 with fans able to sign up for pre-sale tickets now.

The tickets will go on official sale on February 11.

There will be 12 fights on the card, so fans should arrive early to see the fighters they're looking to watch.

The fight between Ford and the 'Iranian Hulk' will take place over four two-minute rounds and the contest has been sanctioned by the Professional Boxing Association.

The fight will take place in a 24ft ring and the pair will be wearing 14oz gloves on the night.

The four two-minute round clash will be scored along the distance by judges who will be ringside for the main event.

Judges will declare a winner after the final bell if there is no stoppage within the four round distance, although knockdowns and knockouts will be scored.

Undercard fights will be scored by the referee in the ring.

Are you excited for the fight between Martyn Ford and the Iranian Hulk? Let us know your thoughts in the comments section below!

Martyn Ford : "I just want to smash his head in, It won’t give me any sense of achievement or pride to win, because I genuinely don’t think he will bring anything to the table that will allow me to be proud of myself.

"You can’t feel good about beating someone up that is useless. For me this is about settling some nonsense that has gone backwards and forwards for two or three years.

“This is not a sporting event, you can’t have an event with someone who looks like that. That’s not a sportsman at all.

"This fight is purely for me to shut him and the other 200,000 fans of his up. Once it is done it allows me to move forward."

Iranian Hulk : "I have nothing to lose. When no one has anything to lose, this is very dangerous. Can't wait to FIGHT.

"The severity of the blows is so high that I sleep with severe pain. All exercises in this month include impact tolerance and the force of the blows.

"For the reputation of Iran, the neighbouring chicken is always a goose."