CCTV coverage is now in place in the centre of an Airdrie village following vandalism incidents and to improve road safety.

The 360-degree camera in Calderbank will be in place at the junction of Crowwood Road and Main Street for the next two months.

It follows a period last year when the bus service through the village was temporarily suspended after alleged vandalism attacks on vehicles.

The Lanarkshire Live app is available to download now. Get all the news from your area – as well as features, entertainment, sport and the latest on Lanarkshire’s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic – straight to your fingertips, 24/7. The free download features the latest breaking news and exclusive stories, and allows you to customise your page to the sections that matter most to you. Head to the App Store and never miss a beat in Lanarkshire - iOS - Android

Airdrie South councillor Michael Coyle hopes the camera will deter any anti-social behaviour and also potentially contribute to helping reduce speeds on the road through the village.

He said: “This can cover most of the hotspots where there have been complaints; it’s a temporary trial to see how it will go but I think anything that deters vandalism will be welcomed by the community.

“Neil Gray MSP and I requested CCTV for this area as we’ve been keen to get a camera installed for quite a while and the bus incidents proved that there was a definite need for one to stop dangerous behaviour.”

Airdrie & Shotts representative Mr Gray said he was “delighted” by the decision of North Lanarkshire Council and Police Scotland to supply and monitor the camera after working alongside both groups.

He said: “I really hope that it means an end to some of the types of incidents that we have seen in recent months.

“Locals were keen to make sure that their village was safe and this should help to appease some of their concerns.”

A spokesperson for North Lanarkshire Council said: “A CCTV camera has been placed at Crowwood Road, Calderbank in response to incidents of anti-social behaviour.

“The camera will be deployed for an initial eight weeks to assess the situation and to deter further incidents; the situation will be reviewed after that and decisions taken on any further action.”

*Don't miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters here.

And did you know Lanarkshire Live is on Facebook? Head on over and give us a like and share!