Another wind warning has been issued in Scotland as strong gusts continue to batter large parts of the country.

The latest Met Office yellow warning is in place across for northeastern and northern parts of Scotland. The warning has been in place since 6am this morning, and will remain in force until 6pm tonight.

Forecasters say that winds of up to 65mph are expected to hit exposed coastal areas, with the likes of Sutherland, Caithness and Orkney seeing the worst of the conditions.

This could result in power cuts in these areas and public transport is expected to be heavily impacted amid the adverse weather.

Experts have said that the winds will not be as strong as those experienced during storms Malik and Corrie, which left thousands of homes without power over the weekend.

A notice on the Met Office website reads: “Strong northwesterly winds are expected to develop across northern Scotland early on Tuesday morning, persisting through the day.

“Gusts of up to 50mph are expected, reaching as high as 55 to 65mph across northern Sutherland, Caithness and Orkney.

“These speeds are much less than experienced in Storms Malik and Corrie, and not unusual for the time of year, but recently weakened trees and structures could be prone to further damage.

Yesterday, Nicola Sturgeon said that some parts of the north east could be left without power until later today.

The First Minister announced that power supplies in some areas will remain off until work remains ongoing to repair the damage from the storms over the weekend.

A total of 117,000 lost power in Scotland over recent days.

Winds peaked over 90mph in some parts of the country on Saturday and Sunday as Storm Malik and Storm Corrie descended on Scotland.

Gusts have remained high across the country following the weekend, with winds picking up to around 40mph more widely this morning.

Temperatures have been unusually high for the time of the year, with the thermostat climbing into double figures today.

Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.