(Natural News) As the weekend approached, there were more signs that Russia is planning an all-out invasion of neighboring Ukraine, which could become the trigger for the next world war if the hapless Biden regime and NATO don’t play their cards right.

First, according to The Drive, six Russian navy amphibious landing ships have left their Baltic Sea port and are steaming into the Mediterranean Sea, ostensibly to take part in “naval exercises” suspiciously near Ukraine.

“However, with tensions surrounding Russia and Ukraine remaining high, there has been concern that the amphibious flotilla’s ultimate destination may be the Black Sea. From there they would be well-positioned to support a potential new Russian intervention in Ukraine,” the outlet reported.

take our poll - story continues below

The outlet went on to identify three of the vessels:

The three vessels from the Russian Navy’s Northern Fleet, the Project 775 Ropucha class amphibious warfare ships Olenegorskiy Gornyak and Georgiy Pobedonosets and the Project 11711 Ivan Gren class landing ship Pyotr Morgunov, were spotted entering the Mediterranean … via the Strait of Gibraltar.

The Russian ships were shadowed by a patrol vessel belonging to the Spanish Navy, as well as a U.S. Navy P-8 Poseidon patrol aircraft, one of the sea service’s most modern planes for surveillance and anti-submarine warfare.

Two days earlier, a trio of Ropucha class vessels from the Baltic Fleet, which preceded the flotilla from the Northern Fleet as it passed through the English Channel, entered the Med Sea along the same route, The Drive reported.

The Russian military had previously announced that these amphibious warfare vessels would be participating in exercises involving several other warships including some from Russia’s Pacific Fleet. But as in the past, Moscow often masks offensive military actions with pre-announced ‘maneuvers’ or ‘exercises,’ as was the case prior to the Georgian invasion in August 2008.

Another Russian warship, the Vishnya class intelligence-gathering ship Vasiliy Tatishchev, has also entered the Mediterranean Sea, ostensibly to also take part in the ‘exercises.’

“At the same time, with a focus on the build-up of Russian forces around Ukraine’s borders, there remains the concern that these naval maneuvers, as well as fo [sic] due to take place in Belarus, could be part of the Kremlin’s planning for a new campaign against Ukraine,” The Drive reports.

“These fears have been reinforced not only by the sheer scale of the Russian military deployments in the border areas but also the appearance of certain offensive weapons systems, including Iskander short-range ballistic missiles and combat aircraft,” it added.

Meanwhile, “Russia’s military buildup near Ukraine has expanded to include supplies of blood along with other medical materials that would allow it to treat casualties, in yet another key indicator of Moscow’s military readiness,” Reuters reported on Saturday, a further indication that President Vladimir Putin is serious about invading his western neighbor.

Such medical supplies, especially blood, which is often in short supply and must be kept refrigerated, are crucial to any invasion, especially given that Ukraine is planning to resist.

U.S. officials have warned for days now that Russia is in a position to launch an attack on very short notice. As soon as Putin has all of his pieces in place, it appears likely that is what he will do.
• 10 Signs That Indicate That The U.S., The UK, Israel And NATO All Believe That We Are On The Precipice Of War With Russia
• US Gets Even Closer To War With Both Russia & China
• Russia feeling newly aggressive now that Trump is gone: Moscow threatens to BOMB British warship HMS Defender if it sails close to Crimea again

After two years I have regained my eyesight and I'm back. I have overcome my health issues thanks to prayers, perseverance and GOD! But my finances are in bad shape and I need help to get my children back (wife kicked me out). If you can help financially please click here. If money is tight, I'd still welcome prayers. Please.