A Lanarkshire woman has pleaded for her legally blind mum to be moved from her home as rats constantly run riot in her kitchen.

Ninety-three-year-old Rachel Gray is housebound and over past few months, vermin have taken over parts of her house in the Halfway part of Cambuslang.

Now her daughter Lilian says "enough-is-enough", and is demanding her mum be moved.

The Lanarkshire Live app is available to download now. Get all the news from your area – as well as features, entertainment, sport and the latest on Lanarkshire’s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic – straight to your fingertips, 24/7. The free download features the latest breaking news and exclusive stories, and allows you to customise your page to the sections that matter most to you. Head to the App Store and never miss a beat in Lanarkshire - iOS - Android

She wants a resolution to be found so her mum, who also suffers from kidney disease, can get food without being left terrified.

Lilian told Lanarkshire Live: "It's a horrible thought that they're in the kitchen all the time, and it's been awful.

"This started last year and we thought the problem had been eradicated eventually. South Lanarkshire Council (SLC) put down bait a few times and it seemed the rats had been getting in a few ways.

"At the time the pest control people weren't sure exactly how they had managed it. We thought we had sorted it, but now they're back - we've seen they've chewed on the cellar door..

"We actually first realised when we saw a loaf in the bread bin that had been partially eaten - there had been crumbs around as well, and I think mum thought I'd been messy when I was round at first.

"The biggest problem is that it means my mum isn't going into the kitchen at the moment.

"My mum's legally blind and has health issues, so there's a concern that if she catches something or gets bitten it could be fatal."

Since the most recent sightings, bait was placed around the kitchen. However, Lilian fears the problem will simply keep reoccurring.

She added: "The council have said they'll look at replacing the cellar door, but we don't even know if that's where they are getting in.

"It might be via another property here. I've applied for my mum to be moved, she doesn't deserve to keep having this happen.

It's believed other homes on the street have been looked at as well.

Pauline Elliott, SLC's acting head of fleet and environmental services, said: "We instructed a pest contractor to attend this address, following a new complaint received on January 17.

"Treatment is ongoing, and baits have been left in and around the property.

"The divisional environmental health officer has spoken to Ms Gray and assured her of continuing swift attention to the problem.

"With that in mind, the contractor returned to the house on Monday to carry out further checks."

Don't miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters .

And did you know is on Facebook? Why not head to and give us a like and share.