A man who is used to spending £10,000 a year on plastic surgery and appearing on reality TV has described his stint in jail as ‘not that bad’.

Jimmy Featherstone, who is known as Ken Doll, was sent to prison for one month for showing a blatant “lack of respect” for the law.

Jimmy claims he had previously missed a court meeting to go down to London and appear on ITV’s This Morning.

He spoke to Alison Hammond and Dermot O’Leary in a segment named ‘the man who spends 1K a month on tanning despite skin cancer risks’.

The 22-year-old turned up to court with a H&M bag while wearing a mustard tweed pattern jacket and red gloves.

He was imprisoned in December after failing to comply with orders relating to previous offences, including harassment.

And now the self-confessed cosmetic surgery and tanning addict, who appears on channel 4’s Hooked On The Look has branded his time in jail “not that bad” and said he even made friends while there.

Jimmy was picked up from prison in a Range Rover and treated to a range of luxury items to celebrate his release, according to Hull Daily Mail.

The Hull man, who spends over £10,000 a year on cosmetic surgery, has since been enjoying nightlife in Hull, shopping, and even had more surgery since coming out.

He said: “I’m back. I made a silly mistake. It could have lost me my career. However life goes on and you’ve got to move forward not backwards in 2022.

“You hear all these rumours about prison. The rumours aren’t true.

“Everyone in there looks out for each other and I had nothing but kindness from everyone in there.

“Obviously, that isn’t to say that prison is a nice place because it’s not - obviously prisons are not made to be nice.”

Jimmy made a shocking admission on Instagram that he managed to get fake tan while in prison.

He also revealed he had a phone in his cell to make calls to his friends and family.

While answering questions on his Instagram, one person asked him: “Was prison bad?? I wouldn’t last a night lol.”

To which Jimmy replied: “No, I knew guys in there who was on my wing who knew my father plus I had a phone in my room to make calls to my family and friends.

“Also I got money sent in to me that allowed you to buy anything really you get a shopping list and you can buy literally anything.

“I even got fake tan in there, however I only did four weeks although in there it’s a long time but outside world is nothing thanks for asking xxx.”

The reality TV star confessed he “made a silly mistake”, but the rehabilitation process didn’t changed him.

Jimmy told Hull Live: “I would say prison has not changed me - I feel more determined than ever.

“I cannot let what happened ruin my life and my goals. I’ve got to stay more focused and move forward.

“It is the start of a new year for me with many opportunities ahead, I’ve got to do what’s best for me. I was thankful for all the support I got while away.”

Just a few weeks after returning home, he visited Manchester to get a surgical eyebrow lift.

“That’s one of many surgeries ticket off the list. I’m in the healing process, it was painful but I’m now recovered and pleased with the outcome. It’s clear I’m no stranger to undergoing any treatment,” he said.

The reality TV lover claims he will be getting more surgeries this year to complete his “plastic fantastic” look despite previous concerns from family and friends. He says he will also appear on a major UK TV show later this year.

He added: “I’m pleased to have been filming for a new show on one of the TV’s biggest platforms after my This Morning debut and Hooked On The Look, there’s been many opportunities and you’ve just got to decide what best suits and fits your personality.

“This year, I’m kicking off filming a fun family show which involves viewers too. I can’t give much away yet as the show hasn’t been given a name, but filming will start next month so I’ll be up and down the country.”

The 22-year-old has also said he is bringing out a horse riding clothing line range and told his fans to keep an eye out via his Instagram page, which boasts over 30,000 followers.

Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.