A pedestrian wearing a facemask walks across a deserted Chinatown Central Plaza decorated with red lanterns in Los Angeles on Feb. 12, 2021. (Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images)

Where to Celebrate Lunar New Year in Southern California

It is that time of the year—when kids are showered with red envelopes full of money as they shout auspicious phrases to bring good luck to their relatives.

Feb. 1 marks Lunar New Year 2020—Year of the Tiger—which is celebrated in many countries across Asia, including China, Korea, Vietnam, and Singapore. Each country has its own traditions and ways to celebrate.

As one of the most iconic traditional holidays for the Asian diaspora, Lunar New Year’s festivities often last until the Lantern Festival on Feb. 15.

Huntington Library in San Marino welcomes the Year of the Tiger with a two-day celebration on Feb. 5 and Feb. 6. Visitors can enjoy live entertainment including pieces such as the lion dance, mask changer, Chinese opera, Chinese calligraphy, Chinese martial art demonstrations, and more.

Chinese dining specials will also be provided neaby at Red Car Coffee Shop located at 1919 Café, Jade Court Café.

All visitors must wear a mask except children under age 2.

The Alhambra lunar new year festival takes place Sunday, Feb. 20, from 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in conjunction with the farmers market. The festival features a lion dance, live music, a cooking demonstration, and other cultural performances.

The main stage will be right across from the entrance of Alhambra City Hall on 1st Street.

The Vietnamese Tet Festival will be held on Feb. 5 and 6 at Orange County Fair and Event Center. This year’s Tet Festival theme is “Spring of Reunion” and will highlight the Vietnamese heritage through live entertainment, a firecracker show, games, and rides.

In addition to a cultural performance, the festival will also host a Pho and watermelon eating competitions.

General admission is $8 and free for children under age 2. Free admission will be accepted for visitors wearing traditional outfits on Saturday.

Both The Grove and The Americana at Brand shopping centers are observing the Lunar New year with festive displays. This year, customers who stop by the concierge will be offered a Year of the Tiger tote bag and a lucky red envelope that either contains a $2 bill or a coupon from one of the vendors. The event will last until Feb. 6, 2022.

The Lantern Festival is co-hosted by Panana Event and the City of Eastvale and will kick off with an opening ceremony on Feb. 19 at 11 a.m. The festival takes place at the Citrus Event Venue and hosts dozens of food vendors and regional artisans that sell both traditional and modern goods.

The event will feature unique cultural performances such as traditional Chinese dance and martial arts demonstrations. Kids can enjoy inflatable rides and win prizes at the Japanese game machines.