Sue Gray’s highly anticipated report into alleged lockdown-busting parties at Downing Street dominates the headlines in today’s newspapers.

The 12-page Gray report identified “failures of leadership and judgment”, while the Met was revealed to be investigating 300 photos connected to a dozen of gatherings at No 10.

The Guardian has “‘Failures of leadership’: Tories turn on PM over Gray report” as the splash, saying Boris Johnson faced a wall of anger from Conservative MPs in the Commons after the Gray report.

The Independent also leads with “Failures of leadership” alongside a picture of a downcast Johnson.

The Metro too goes with “A failure of leadership”, writing the Gray “update” gives a damning verdict on boozy parties at No 10.

The Mirror’s take on the fallout from the Gray report is “Zero shame”. The paper writes “Boris Johnson again refused to quit over Partygate despite Sue Gray revealing police are probing 12 lockdown bashes at No 10”.

The Times picks up on the Met investigation with its headline “Police investigate PM’s four lockdown parties.” It reports that Johnson faces a police investigation over at least four lockdown gatherings.

The Sun also highlights the Met investigation, saying Johnson faces a police grilling over claims of an Abba-themed party at Downing Street – giving rise to its headline “Mamma Mia!”.

The Express attempts to move the issue forward with its headline, “Yes PM, you got it wrong … Now get it right!” The paper says an embattled Johnson pledged to right the wrongs of his premiership, also claiming the PM won vital support from his doubters as he said “Covid nearly killed me.”

The Telegraph goes with “PM to ask Gray for new report”. As Tories demand full publication of the party investigation, the paper writes, the PM requests a further update on inquiries to appease backbenchers.

The Daily Mail calls for the Gray report to be released in full, with its headline: “Now publish the whole damn thing” The paper writes a national clamour for the full report erupted, with the flimsy 12-page update leaving the country “still stuck in limbo”.

The i newspaper has “PM pleads for his job” above the Gray-report quote “Failure of leadership” over Downing Street parties.

The FT’s focus is on the defiance of the PM, with its splash: “Johnson rejects calls to quit after Gray’s scathing report on parties”.