About 7,000 homes remain without power in northern Scotland and the north-east of England, with dozens of schools closed for another day, as the effort to clear up after Storms Malik and Corrie continues.

Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) was at red alert status after the storms cut power to 117,000 customers in Scotland, with restorations hampered by continuing high winds.

On Monday night it had restored electricity to 100,000 households and hoped to reduce the number of customers off-supply to 7,000 overnight.

Restoration efforts would continue into Tuesday, the firm said, with the possibility that “small clusters” of customers – largely in rural Aberdeenshire and the Angus border, as well as parts of Perthshire, the Highlands, Western Isles and the Moray Coast – may not have power until Wednesday.

The timing would depend on the extent of damage found and the potential impact on safe working conditions in higher winds forecast for Tuesday, SSEN said, after the Met Office issued a yellow warning for wind.

Many schools in the affected areas were unable to open because of lack of power and heating, including 37 in Aberdeenshire, seven in the Highlands and six in Angus.

In the north-east of England, 61 homes remained cut off on Monday night, according to Northern Powergrid. After the storms, 80,000 customers in the region lost supply, the firm said.

Andy Bilclough, its director of field operations, said on Monday night: “Our teams have got through a phenomenal amount of work today, which includes reconnecting around 17,000 customers that were impacted by Storm Corrie, and they are still out there now.

“Almost all of the work we have left to do is a blend of repair work that we discovered when we got to site, some difficult conditions that meant we could not complete the work today, or where we would have needed access to the property during the night but have agreed with the customer to complete the restoration tomorrow.”

Richard Gough, the director of distribution system operations at SSEN, said: “While our teams are making every effort to restore customers as soon as possible, the cumulative impact of Storm Malik and Storm Corrie has compounded the restoration challenge.

“As a result, we are advising customers that while expected restoration of customer supplies from Storm Malik remains Tuesday evening, restoration times for some of those impacted by Storm Corrie may now extend to Wednesday.”