Staff at the UK’s financial watchdog have taken a step closer to striking over planned cuts to pay and conditions, following an indicative ballot in favour of industrial action, my colleague Julia Kollewe reports.

The Unite union said its members who work for the Financial Conduct Authority had voted by 87% in support of industrial action in a non-binding ballot, without giving further details on the number of people who had voted.

It urged the FCA to come to the negotiating table and threatened to proceed to a full industrial action ballot unless a negotiated settlement is reached.



Unite, which is not formally recognised by the FCA as its staff union, argues that the pay cuts, drawn up by the new chief executive Nikhil Rathi as part of a transformation plan, would damage the interests of savers, borrowers and businesses by creating a “bargain basement regulator”.

The City watchdog plans to overhaul itself after scathing criticism over its handling of the London Capital & Finance (LC&F) investment scandal, which wiped out the savings of 11,600 investors. The FCA chair Charles Randell, a former Slaughter and May lawyer, is stepping down early from his post amid the turmoil.

The plan involves abolishing cash bonuses (which make up 10%-12% of pay), as well as what the union calls “unfair” changes to the staff appraisal system, plans to cut staff pension rights and lower pay for staff in Edinburgh.

Unite said pay inequality was unusually high by the standards of public sector regulators, arguing that the FCA has around 40 executives who earn more than the prime minister. The union said the changes had sent morale among FCA staff plummeting and led to an exodus.

The FCA, which employs 4,200 people, denied that the staff appraisal system was changing. It said it had already responded to staff concerns, by upping pay rises for those who meet their performance objectives to 5% this year and 4% next year from an initially planned 2%. New pay bands, including different pay ranges for those based outside London, meant that 800 of the lowest paid staff, such as support, would receive average pay rises of £3,800 this year, it added.

“It is time for the FCA management to come to the negotiating table and ensure they avoid damaging the important work of the regulator. Unite will sit down and negotiate through ACAS [Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service] as soon as the FCA agrees; the ball is in FCA’s court now. “While the proposed cuts at the regulator is good news for fraudsters and rip-off merchants it is bad news for people with savings, loans, mortgages and pensions as experienced and committed staff are being forced out of the door.”

An FCA spokesperson defended the planned changes, saying the regulator had held 77 meetings with staff:

“The proposals in the consultation would ensure the FCA continues to provide one of the best, if not the best, employment packages of any regulator or enforcement agency in the UK. Under the proposals, most colleagues will receive base salary rises of at least 5% this year and 4% next, with many receiving significantly higher amounts. “We have undertaken significant consultation with our colleagues on these proposed changes and expect to publish the outcome by March, following consideration by the FCA board.”