INVESTIGATORS are looking into evidence that Nashville bomber Anthony Quinn Warner spent time hunting for aliens and was interested in "lizard people".

Sources close to the case told ABC News police have acquired some of Warner's writing, containing various ramblings about conspiracy theories.

The 63-year-old is believed to have spent time allegedly hunting for alien life forms in a local state park.

Some of the notes obtained by police are reportedly centred around different world order theories, including the idea that shape-shifting reptilian creatures take on human form in an attempt at world domination.

Authorities are also looking into the idea that IT-expert Warner may have been motivated to target an AT&T building due to paranoia over 5G technology.

Some conspiracy theorists suspect the wireless technology emits lethal radiation, is killing people, and is being used to spy on Americans.

The blast on Christmas Day significantly disrupted cell service in Tennessee, and across the South.

However, it remains unclear if any of these beliefs or behaviours are direct motivations for the bombing, which damaged buildings and left three people in hospital with minor injuries.

The RV was parked outside an AT&T transmission building, which was also damaged in the explosion.

Warner's father, Charles B. Warner, had previously worked for a subsidiary of the communications company.

Electronic devices seized from Warner's home have been sent to a digital forensics laboratory, to unlock his online activity and explore his unconventional views.

"We are waiting on the digital footprint that should finally provide us with some answers," a source explained.

"The unofficial motive thus far is the suspect believed 5G was the root of all deaths in the region and he’d be hailed a hero."

He had told his ex-girlfriend that he had cancer nearly three weeks before the bomb, and gave her his car, according to the New York Times.

It is believed Warner thought he would be "hailed a hero" for the bombing.

However, law enforcement are looking into motives of destruction rather than death, as the blast was preceded by an audio recording warning locals to evacuate.

A witness recalled the stark warning stating: '"Evacuate now. There is a bomb. A bomb is in this vehicle and will explode."

The audio then switched to Petula Clark's 1964 hit "Downtown", shortly before the blast on the downtown streets of Nashville .

Pals and neighbours told how the IT consultant surrounded his home and RV with "No Trespassing" signs.

Warner had previously told his neighbour, Rick Laude less than a week before the bombing: "Nashville and the world is never going to forget me."

In the time before he detonated the bomb, Warner had signed over $409,000 worth of property to Michelle Swing, 29.

Warner was identified by the FBI on December 27 after DNA samples recovered from the scene matched those of Anthony Quinn Warner.

His motives remain unclear and officials have said it is "too early" for it to be discussed publicly.