1. Ask for help.

This is actually the hard part ― not because of the organizing, that’s easy ― [but] stopping to try to take in the full scope of my work. Sometimes it feels like it’s silly to stop working in order to start working again, especially when you might be behind or overwhelmed. But it’s important to stop, take a break, get a little mental clarity. Take a walk, drink a big glass of water, make sure you’ve eaten today.

And that’s important, too: Don’t be afraid to ask for help! So many of us get into the headspace that we have to be masters of all of our duties and do everything on our own or else it’ll reflect poorly on us, and that’s not fair to us or the people we work with. Whether you have the psychological safety to ask for help is a whole different question, obviously, but if you do, ask for it! I can’t tell you how many managers I’ve had who saw me running myself ragged and told me, “Next time, talk to me sooner, I can help you!” and actually meant it. — Alan Henry, service editor at Wired magazine and author of the upcoming book “Seen, Heard, and Paid: The New Work Rules for the Marginalized”

2. Get everything out of your head and onto paper.



4. Acknowledge ‘I am overwhelmed and I need help!’

While I’m task-oriented, there are times when I get behind or get overwhelmed with distractions. My best practices include:

1. Acknowledge where I am: “I am overwhelmed and I need help!”

2. Prioritize my task list: Are my tasks immediate, close of business or later?

3. Limit my distractions: Check social media less or set a specific time for Q&As with students.

4. Get by myself, behind closed doors, for a set amount of time and go full-out on completing tasks. — Pamela A. Reed, time management coach and author of “Unfinished Business: How to Finish What You Start ... Faster!”

5. Communicate quickly if your task involves others.

And then look at projects and deadlines. The work that you have to do: Is it just your own work or does it involve others? If it does, then communication to them has to be the first thing. That distinction, I think, is important. If someone is expecting something from you, communicate right away: “This is the new timeline,” “Can I get this to you by this time?” or make them aware of what’s happening. — Rashelle Isip, productivity consultant

6. Ask yourself this one clarifying question.

But if you are the person who has to decide what’s most important, I like to use a clarifying question from a book called “The One Thing” by Gary Keller. And the clarifying question is: Of all these things that are on my plate, what is the one thing that if it was resolved or it went away, all of these other things would become easier or irrelevant? What is that one domino that if that domino fell, it would make everything else better? — Katie Wussow, business coach for creatives and host of “The Game Changer” podcast