Getting dressed in the morning when you’re pregnant can be a struggle. From an expanding belly to growing pains, back ache and nausea, your body requires clothes that offer a whole new level of comfort and, while there are some pieces you can still get away wearing (hello smock dresses), others need an upgrade to keep you feeling comfortable and secure.

We can think of no other item more fitting for nine months of growing new life than a pair of maternity leggings. A must-have everyday basic, it’s likely that your regular leggings will see you through most, if not all, of your first trimester. But for most expecting mums, you’ll need to make the switch to a pair designed specifically with your growing bump in mind.

So what’s the difference? Unlike standard leggings, maternity styles have an extra bit of fabric at the waistband that’s designed to support your bump and sometimes your back too. Some sit over the bump and high on the waist, while others are low-rise or can be folded down to sit underneath, depending on your personal preference.

Unlike some maternity clothing, leggings are an excellent investment too, as they grow with you, meaning you won’t have to keep buying new ones as your pregnancy advances. Plus, many styles can be worn postpartum, so you can be safe in the knowledge that you’re not splashing cash on an item you’ll only get to wear fleetingly.

They are also a great wardrobe staple that’s super versatile with the ability to go with pretty much everything in your maternity wardrobe from oversized shirts to casual tees, silky blouses, blazers and more.

Our tester, who is in their second trimester, put a range of maternity leggings through their paces, wearing them while running a day’s worth of errands, during Netflix marathons and workouts. Those that made the cut surpassed our expectations when it came to delivering a comfortable all-day fit, fabric quality, sizing and cost. These are the styles that will have you (and your bump) covered.

The best maternity leggings for 2022 are:

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.