A group of Insulate Britain protesters are set to appear in court for allegedly breaching an injunction that banned them from blocking roads.

The hearing at the High Court in London for 19 members of the climate group is expected to kick off on Tuesday morning.

Other Insulate Britain protesters were jailed towards the end of last year over breaches of an injuction barring them from blocking traffic and access to thousands of miles of roads in the country.

The group began a wave of demonstrations in September last year, which included blocking the M25 and other roads in London including around Parliament, as well as roads in Birmingham, Manchester and around the Port of Dover in Kent.

A number of High Court injunctions against the group’s road blockades have been granted to National Highways and Transport for London to prevent their disruptive protests.

Those who breach the injunctions could be found in contempt of court and face a maximum penalty of two years in prison or an unlimited fine.

Tuesday’s hearing is expected to centre on an alleged breach during a protest on the M25.

Insulate Britain said it would bring the total number of its protesters to face contempt of court hearings to 27.

The defendants include Arne Springorum, 49, Ben Taylor, 27, Ben Buse, 36, Biff Whipster, 54, David Nixon, 35, Diana Warner, 62, Ellie Litten, 35, Gabriella Ditton, 28, and Indigo Rumbelow, 27 and Christian Rowe, 24.

Jessica Causby, 25, Liam Norton, 37, Paul Sheeky, 46, Ruth Jarman, 58, Stephanie Aylett, 27, Stephen Gower, 55, Stephen Pritchard, 62, Rev Sue Parfitt, 79, and Theresa Norton, 63, are also expected to appear.

The hearing before Lord Justice William Davis and Mr Justice Johnson is due to begin at 10:00am on Tuesday.

In November 2021, nine supporters of the group were jailed at the High Court after admitting breaching the injunction by participating in a blockade on the M25 in October.

Other demonstrators were jailed or given suspended sentences in December for a similar breach.