For a long time, the idea of attempting to make Chinese food at home would spark trepidation in western home cooks. The seemingly endless list of ingredients, cooking tools and new techniques required was daunting.

But over the years, attitudes have changed, with people becoming more inquisitive and welcoming of new regional cuisines and flavours.

The increasing availability of essential Chinese ingredients on supermarket shelves is also emboldening for home cooks who are looking to try their hand at something new.

Even if you can’t find a specific ingredient in Sainsbury’s or Morrisons, the number of online Asian grocers that have popped up to fill the gap is nothing short of a miracle for home cooks.

These days, there is nothing quite as exciting as opening up a box of new spices, herbs, sauces, and dried ingredients to try in the kitchen.

It is inevitable that a country as big as China – sprawling over 9.3 million sq km, with a population of nearly 1.4 billion people – has so many regional variations and specialities that it would be near-impossible to detail them all in a single cookbook. Chinese cuisine is incredibly exciting in that way – there’s always something new to discover and try.

So if you’re looking to embark on a culinary journey from the comfort of home (and perhaps spend a bit less on takeaways), look no further than our selection of the best Chinese cookbooks that will inspire you to create and explore flavours and textures you may have only dreamed of.

We tried two or three recipes from each book to test for ease and clarity of instruction, as well as how tasty they were. Most of the cookbooks we chose have detailed tips and how-tos on technique, and are simple enough that we were confident we could follow each step. We also wanted to ensure there were recipes for every dietary requirement and have included cookbooks with vegetarian and vegan recipes, as well as those with gluten-free substitutions.

Each book we chose is packed with knowledge and experience, with detailed recipes to help you get the most out of your cooking.

The best Chinese cookbooks for 2022 are:

Terry Tan’s China: A Cookbook is a fantastic resource that covers the entirety of China, and is a worthy successor to our well-worn copy of China: The Cookbook by Kei Lum and Diora Fong Chan. For specific types of dishes, Pippa Middlehurst’s Dumplings and Noodles is an excellent deep dive, and vegans will love Ching-He Huang’s Asian Green cookbook. For the latest discounts on other books and kitchen accessories, try the links below: We’ve also found the best vegetarian cookbooks, packed full of delicious recipes and ideas

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.