After first, having GoFundMe temporarily block the release of some of the funds that Canadians have donated to help support the livelihoods of the truckers taking place in the demonstration, GoFundMe began to pay out the funds, with the first payment of $1M in Canadian dollars being released, the campaign organizer tweeted on Friday.

However, the campaign has raised more than $7.3 million in Canadian dollars and those funds could now be at risk of being seized by the local government if some politicians get their way.

Mathieu Fleury, the Ottawa City Councillor of Rideau-Vanier Ward, has today announced his support for the government to launch a legal challenge to seize the remaining GoFundMe donations that had been collected online.

“This morning, I have asked the city manager and city solicitor to immediately launch court proceedings targeting the millions of dollars in funds frozen by @GoFundMe so Ottawa taxpayers are not left holding the bag for these protests,” Fleury tweeted, before locking his account after facing backlash.

He showed his letter to the city manager, announcing the request.

“I want to voice my support for the notion of City initiating actions against the GoFundme funds to cover City expenses from incidents from the protests. (Police costs, businesses and residents for clean-up, promotion for our City, and messaging to support downtown residents, and funds for local groups who were victimized over the weekend) Please advise on actions we can and will take.” Online fundraising for civil liberties causes is becoming an increasing challenge as the platforms themselves, the payment processors, and even hostile government action continue to hamper attempts to fundraise for causes.

See also this from Zerohedge: Canadian Official ‘Expects Police To Take Appropriate Action’ As Truck Convoy Blocks US-Canada Border Crossing

Authorities in the Canadian province of Alberta have dispatched heavily armed police units to disperse the blockade of a border crossing with the US state of Montana by truckers disgruntled with Covid-19 vaccine mandates.

Scores of Canadian truckers blocked the border crossing between Coutts, Alberta and Sweet Grass, Montana over the weekend, as thousands of their colleagues descended on the Canadian capital of Ottawa to picket the parliament.

On Monday afternoon, surrounded by special units of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the truckers prayed and decided to open one northbound lane for local traffic and let anyone who wished to leave to do so, but voted to stand their ground. One of them vowed the “only way I’m leaving is in a [police] cruiser.” Police are “not willing to negotiate,” one of the truckers told the outlet Rebel News, adding that by opening a lane, they were technically complying with a provincial law passed in 2020 to crack down on indigenous rights activists. According to Coutts Mayor Jim Willett, about 100 trucks were blocking Highway 4 on the Canadian side, causing a miles-long backup on Interstate 15 in Montana. About 50-100 trucks have reportedly been stuck on the US side since Saturday. The blockade is a protest against US and Canadian governments mandating that truckers must be “fully vaccinated” against Covid-19, which came into effect on January 15. Alberta Premier Jason Kenney, who is in Washington, DC for a meeting of US governors (ER: a meeting of US governors?), denounced the blockade on Sunday as “causing significant inconvenience for lawful motorists” and insisted it “must end immediately.” Kenney, a member of the United Conservative Party, also joined Prime Minister Justin Trudeau – a Liberal – in condemning the “Freedom Convoy” that drove across Canada last week and parked outside the parliament in Ottawa, demanding an end to vaccine mandates. (ER: Kenney has a history in Canada’s Liberal party for those misled by the word ‘conservative’.) Trudeau claimed that he will not give in to “those who fly racist flags” or “engage in vandalism or dishonor the memory of our veterans,” insinuating that an unidentified man photographed with a Nazi flag and three protesters who climbed onto the National War Monument disqualified the entire movement. Kenney has said the Coutts protest violates the Alberta Traffic Safety Act. Truckers have countered that opening up a lane for local traffic technically makes them compliant with both ATSA and the 2020 Critical Infrastructure Defence Act, passed after indigenous rights activists blockaded railways. However, Mayor Willett told reporters on Monday morning that the RCMP was “getting impatient.” All Global Research articles can be read in 51 languages by activating the “Translate Website” drop down menu on the top banner of our home page (Desktop version). Visit and follow us on Instagram at @globalresearch_crg. ‘Yesterday I stood with friends and colleagues at one of the many highway overpasses in Toronto as we watched a truly historic moment unfold before our tear-filled eyes. Thousands of liberty-loving Canadians from all walks of life were gathered there—as they were throughout the country—in the freezing cold, holding aloft flags and signs to show support for hundreds of courageous transport truck drivers as they passed by us in the Freedom Convoy on the way to our nation’s capital.’ — David Skripac, renowned author and pilot who served as a Captain in the Royal Canadian Air Force the protesters “have expressed hateful rhetoric and violence towards their fellow citizens.” “So to those responsible for this behaviour — it needs to stop, … Canadians at home are watching in disgust and disbelief at this behaviour, wondering how this could have happened in our nation’s capital. … Trudeau says that no one has a right “to abuse, intimidate and harass … fellow citizens.” “Disgust and Disbelief” according to Trudeau. Millions of Canadians from coast to coast have supported and continue to support the Freedom Convoy 2022. There was no evidence of racism, hatred and violence by protesters, abuse against fellow citizens as claimed by the Prime Minister. The Vaccine Is Safe According to Trudeau Trudeau claims without evidence that the vaccine is safe. We do not support disinformation and conspiracy theories, he says. He attacks Erin O’Toole, leader of the Conservative Party. He calls on politicians to think very carefully who they are supporting. He calls upon politicians to “respect science”. Trudeau calls for “trust in science, trust in facts”. In that regard I fully support him. I suggest you read the official science and facts reports of the EU, US and UK pertaining to reported, recorded and registered vaccine-related deaths and adverse events. Bear in mind: Most deaths and adverse events are not reported. These are official figures. They are facts. TOTAL for EU/UK/USA – 61,654 Covid-19 injection related deaths and 9,755,085 injuries reported as at 28 January 2022. And Health Canada does not inform Canadians on the deaths and adverse events pertaining to Covid-19 vaccine. See Trudeau’s Statement followed by Press Conference Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says “hate speech and racist symbols must not be tolerated in Canada.” 1:46 This is what is happening. And Trudeau calls it a “fringe minority”. Video: ALL of Canada Has Joined The Convoy, Except Trudeau Trudeau referred to swastikas intimating that the organizers are supportive of Neo-Nazi symbols. (There was one swastika event in Ottawa coupled with a Confederate flag, confirmed by the Times of Israel). What Trudeau, however, fails to mention is that his government is supporting Ukraine’s National Guard, which is controlled by Neo-Nazi elements. According to the Ottawa Citizen (November 9, 2021) “Canadian officials who met with members of a Ukrainian battalion linked to neo-Nazis didn’t denounce the unit, but were instead concerned the media would expose details of the get-together, according to newly released documents. The Canadians met with and were briefed by leaders from the Azov Battalion in June 2018. The officers and diplomats did not object to the meeting and instead allowed themselves to be photographed with battalion officials despite previous warnings that the unit saw itself as pro-Nazi. The Azov Battalion then used those photos for its online propaganda, pointing out the Canadian delegation expressed “hopes for further fruitful co-operation.” There is ample evidence of Canadian and US support to Neo-Nazis in Ukraine going back to the 2014 Euromaidan: Andriy Parubiy co-founder of the Neo-Nazi Social-National Party of Ukraine (subsequently renamed Svoboda) was appointed [in 2014] Secretary of the National Security and National Defense Committee (RNBOU). (Рада національної безпеки і оборони України), a key position which overseas the Ministry of Defense, the Armed Forces, Law Enforcement, National Security and Intelligence. Upon the formation of a new government in 2014, Neo-Nazi leader Andriy Parubiy becomes an MP and then is elected Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada (Parliament of Ukraine). n 2016 Nazi leader Andreiy Parubiy was invited to Ottawa to meet the Prime Minister of Canada. Deputy Chairman of Ukraine’s Parliament, Andriy Parubiy, visited Ottawa in February 2016, meeting with the prime minister. At that meeting (from left) are Ukraine’s Ambassador to Canada Andriy Shevchenko, Verkhovna Rada Deputy Chairman Andriy Parubiy, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Member of Parliament Borys Wrzesnewskyj. Published to The Liberty Beacon from EuropeReloaded.com