KEN’S CORNER: You Own The Shit America Has Become – You Let It Happen…

He, your President of slaves, is nothing but a puppet. He creates nothing. His mandates were written before the election was stolen. Our masters are in control, and have been for hundreds of years… and you don’t know this? How could you not! Shit, the US has been a corporation since 1871. What is DC? You don’t know? Why the hell don’t you? But I know what hit you right between the eyes in this first paragraph… I said the word shit.

Perhaps your IQ, your ego, your lethargic myopia is the blame. Ignorant and self absorbed uninspired crybabies… that is you. What is the national debt? From almost 15 trillion dollars, to just under 30 trillion dollars in 10 years, and you don’t care? You don’t know because you don’t give a crap about anything but for immediate gratification. You can’t push back, can’t organize… waiting for Jesus to come back to fix the world you created with your stupidity.

Your history is rewritten and you are incapable of original thought. You wouldn’t know truth if it bit you on your fat ass… Children crying in the wilderness waiting for someone supernatural to save you. Sheep who look around without seeing.

Taboo owns you darling. Get used to it. You gave away your Constitutional Republic for Maritime Law, and The Progressives and Neocons are two wings on the same bird. You can’t figure that no one is going to prison because they are company men for the Corporation? What a pathetic joke you are!

It never occurred you that the reason elections are always so close is because they are fixed? Your election was fixed and you are told to stand down, with a wall around your White House,,, ha! … and you are going to watch an NFL game, like everything is just fine. You do what they tell you to do, and that is just the way you like it. Civil Liberty means nothing to you, and you can’t find anything bigger than yourself to die for. And yet, you let your stupid kids fight and die for them… Corporations who use our military to crush competition. They died for corporate profit. Oh, you thought otherwise?

But that is the way of men… the way it has always been. Never in history have you morons ever been able to self govern, always looking for the next leader to tell you what to do. You are going to get just what you deserve. It’s the law of cause and effect. It’s kind of funny when you think about it, but tragic… because we live in an insane asylum, and you fight over who has the remote.

Yes, the truth hurts, and it adds to the fear in your collective hearts. But fear isn’t the only thing dictating and governing your mindset. It’s a gumbo of cancers that eat you alive. You have no clue that your mind is manipulated from cradle to grave, like zombies just intelligent enough to be productive for Big Brother, but not enough to find your way out of the maze. Can’t even figure out what love is. But you call yourself a Christian, brought into the fold by leaders who projects one of the 300 plus bibles as truth, and taught to oppose all other faiths, even the other flavors that have the same name. You are owned by a secular mindset, and can’t even figure out that love and jealousy can not exist in the same heart. You are so special, so beautiful, and at the top of your game. What you are is a cosmic joke.

Your masters have made it a taboo to even mention their name. You fought wars, and your brothers died all around you, fighting other crying puppets pleading to the same God for support, and here you find Marxists in the White House. You make me want to puke.

Ha! But I’m no better. I have been writing for twenty years to a audience who can no Longer read, who get their ideas from the new mode of Communication, memes. I’m going down with the ship too, invisible by Face Book, sabotaged by human beings wanting a paycheck.

What the shit can I do? I love my grand-kids, my family, and yes, even you fools. Last week some kids in hoodies took my bicycle from my porch, the same night cars were broke into. They were recorded, but I didn’t even call the police. One side of me wants to make an example of them, but another side says it’s just not worth it. Yes, when a man like me, married and still in love after 5O years, paid his taxes to pay for abortions, to a foreign nation who has control of both houses with duel citizenship, who knows me better than I know myself… vying, unrelenting, constant… waiting and waiting for me to no longer give a shit… now that is the future I see.

Yes, that’s me in this picture. I just made eighteen. I was in Point Loma, waiting for orders to go to Vietnam. I had no choice, I was drafted. I took an oath just a few weeks before saying I would defend the Constitution from all enemies both domestic and foreign, and have tried, tried and tried, in a county of slaves. A country that died a long time ago, existing in an illusion. What a fool I was to think I had the ability to change it. I was prepared to die for it when I had no higher education, before I had any inkling of what a man could be, when I was a virgin. Yes, the little virgin dressed in his little white uniform going to war. How pathetic is that. What a fool you think I am.

From the Author, Ken La Rive – We in the Liberty movement have been fighting to take back this country for less than a decade, peacefully and with the love of God and country in our hearts. Our banner has been trampled on and displaced by a multitude of distractions, further eroding our nation and the cause for Liberty. And so, as we are pulled by forces we cannot fathom, powerful entities with unlimited resources stolen from our future, unaccountable trillions printed out of thin air and put on our backs as debt, we must formulate the most pitiful of all questions any patriot might ask in the final hour: Are we going to fight for our master’s tyranny, or are we going to demand the return of our civil liberties and Constitution? Are we going to choose The Banner of Liberty, or the shackles of voluntary servitude? Will it be a war for corporate profit, or a war to regain our ability to self govern, as the blood and toil of our forefathers presented to us, their children, as a gift? I fear that decision is emanate. I fear that any decision will be a hard one, but my greatest fear of all is that the decision has already been made for us.