The data support and strengthen concerns that the vaccines can injure the heart and nervous system, cause miscarriages and even trigger cancer.

Aviation safety officer Lt Colonel Theresa Long, Dr Samuel Sigoloff and Lt Colonel Peter Chambers made their findings known under the Military Whistle-blowers Protection Act. ‘All three have given me this data in declarations that stated this is under penalty of perjury,’ Renz said. ‘We intend to submit this to the courts.’

He was speaking towards the end of a five-hour panel discussion by a group of world-renowned doctors and medical experts called by Republican Senator Ron Johnson to examine the global pandemic response.

For the first time in such a high-level group, several of the experts discussed signals of a cancer risk from the Covid jabs and the mechanisms that could lie behind that.

DMED is a web-based tool that contains codes for every medical diagnosis submitted by the military for insurance billing purposes. The doctors ran a search for codes relating to ailments and injuries which could be related to the jabs, using data from 2016 to 2020 to establish a five-year average, and comparing that with totals for the first ten months of 2021.

The figures are for diagnostic codes, rather than individual patients, some of whom will have made visits giving rise to several code entries.

Nevertheless, the increases are stunning.

The five-year average for miscarriages, for example, was 1,499 entries a year. There was no increase in 2020, when Covid arrived. The 2021 figure was 4,182, a rise of nearly 300 per cent.

A similar increase was seen with cancer, from a five-year average of 38,700 compared with 114,645 in 2021.

Diagnostic codes for neurological issues rose even more dramatically, up by 1,000 per cent from a baseline average of 82,000 to 863,000.

‘Our soldiers are being experimented on, injured, and sometimes possibly killed,’ Renz said.

Other numbers from the database, revealed in a subsequent interview with policy analyst Daniel Horowitz, include:

· Congenital malformations (for children of military personnel) – 156 per cent increase

Renz told Horowitz that this is just ‘the tip of the iceberg’ as the codes have increased exponentially in numerous other diagnosis categories. He said the numbers tended to be remarkably similar in all the preceding years, but rocketed when the vaccines were distributed in 2021, even excluding the months of November and December.

A spreadsheet covering more than 100 categories was shared with Senator Johnson and his staff before last week’s hearing.

One of the whistle-blowers told Horowitz that physicians throughout all branches of the force had been intimidated into not properly investigating potential adverse reactions from the jab. ‘It will require other military physicians to step forward and share experiences to fully ascertain the enormity of these allegations and engender an investigation to the fullest extent,’ the doctor said.

Senator Johnson said his office had put the Defense Department and Biden administration on notice that they must preserve and investigate the data.

‘The increase in cancer is something I’ve been hearing about for months,’ he said. ‘Quite honestly, I’ve told people I don’t think the public is quite ready for that yet. But this is frightening.’

Panel member Dr Ryan Cole, a pathologist, said he saw an early signal of some virus conditions increasing during the mass vaccine rollout, and was now seeing more of certain types of cancer. Both increases might reflect an adverse effect of the jab on immune surveillance.

‘I’ve been cancelled, I’ve been ridiculed, I’ve been maligned for saying so, but I can’t deny the observation . . . I am seeing these odd, stable cancers take off like wildfires, after the vaccine. It is happening,’ Cole said. Other specialists were now also reporting an increase in cancers. Federal funding was needed to find out what was really happening.

He added: ‘Getting a grant for anything related to the vaccines is next to impossible because they are “perfect, safe and effective”.’

Senator Johnson said the safety signal he had received was coming from nurses across the country, contacting him to say why they were not going to get the vaccine. ‘They are seeing these patients, their cancers are in remission, and all of a sudden – boom, they are blossoming again.’

The cancer risk is flagged up in a detailed analysis published this month by Dr Stephanie Seneff, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) senior researcher, with top American heart specialist Dr Peter McCullough as a co-author.

Most of the Covid vaccines inject strips of genetic instructions that cause our body cells to manufacture the spike protein, a feature of the genetically engineered SARS-CoV-2 virus that made it a danger to humans. The idea was that by stimulating the immune system into making antibodies to this protein, the jab would limit the damage caused when we meet the actual virus. There is some evidence that this happens, though the effect rapidly wears off.

However, the vaccine has modifications in its mRNA that may in themselves increase the toxicity of the protein. These hide the injected material from cellular defences, cause increased production of the proteins, and make them last longer.

Seneff says the result of these changes produces a very different immune response to the vaccines compared with natural exposure to the virus. The jab profoundly impairs biochemical signalling vital to a healthy immune system. It also disturbs regulatory control of protein synthesis and cancer surveillance, making tumour growth more likely.

‘Cancer is a disease generally understood to take months or, more commonly, years to progress from an initial malignant transformation in a cell to development of a clinically recognised condition,’ she writes. Since adverse event reports are logged within months or days of the jab, ‘it seems likely that the acceleration of cancer progression following vaccines would be a difficult signal to recognise. Furthermore, most people do not expect cancer to be an adverse event that could be caused by a vaccine.’

Yet an analysis of the US adverse event database shows that it reflects increases in a wide range of cancers, ‘and dramatically so’. For example, there are three times as many reports of breast cancer following a Covid jab than were logged for all other vaccines over the past 31 years. And more than six times as many reports of lymphoma involving B-cells, a type of white blood cell that plays a key role in the immune system.

Cancers of the pancreas, liver, prostate, colon and ovaries are also all showing up on the database at abnormal levels.

The authors conclude that the mRNA jabs should be halted immediately, pending further study of the potential for harm. ‘We are not exaggerating to say that billions of lives are at stake. Until our public health institutions do what is right in this regard, we encourage all individuals to make their own health care decisions, with this information as a contributing factor.’

Whistleblowers Reveal DOD Medical Data Showing Military Cancer Diagnoses HAVE TRIPLED Since Rollout Of Experimental Vaccines

Covid-19 V accines are projected to cause 62.3 Million Cardiovascular Deaths in 2022 Worldwide