Thinking of getting down on one knee this Valentine’s Day, but a bit strapped for cash?

Poundland’s £1 engagement rings are back in store, meaning you can pop the question on a budget this February 14.

The discount retailer launched the engagement rings for cash-strapped couples, selling around 40,000 ahead of Valentine’s in 2020.

Of course, Poundland aren’t the only store to launch £1 engagement rings this year, with shoppers raving about Asda’s ‘pretty’ rings.

However, Poundland bit back and tweeted: “Hi @asda. What do they say about imitation and flattery? Nothing says "I [heart] You" like the original £1 #Poundland Bling Ring. Available in our stores nationwide #KnockOffLove.”

Poundland’s collection of rings feature a choice of faux sapphires, diamonds, rubies and topaz in a range of sizes, as well as a more masculine ring with a plain band, too.

When I visited my local store, there were just a handful of rings left on the shelf - and had clearly been a popular purchase.

I picked up a blue sapphire and a red ruby version of the rings, setting me back £2 - much cheaper than a ‘real’ engagement ring.

The square blue faux sapphire stone version is set in a silver-look setting. It comes slotted neatly into a red velvet ring box in the shape of a heart, and despite being a plastic ring, no-one on Instagram would know.

Mine was in a size M, which was perhaps slightly too small, but I was able to get it on. As there were very limited sizes and styles left, I couldn’t be too picky.

However, the ruby ring - also set in a detailed silver-look band - was a size O, and definitely felt more comfortable. The stone for this design was heart-shaped, which some might consider a little tacky, but for £1, can you really complain?

And whilst some may not like the idea of their engagement ring costing a quid, the commitment it symbolises makes a great offering if you know your partner wants to choose their own ring. It’s a more tangible, less edible version of proposing with a Haribo Starmix ring.

Equally, a partner may not know their bride-to-be’s ring size, and so it’s a sweet way to pop the question with a placeholder before getting the perfect ring. It’s also a great way for couples who have hit money troubles in the pandemic to show their love and commitment to one another, without breaking the bank.

Not only that, but heaven forbid your partner declined your offer of engagement? At least you’ve only lost £1!

Personally, I don’t think I’d be best pleased if my boyfriend of six years got down on one knee with a Poundland ring - but I do appreciate that for some, they’d find the sentiment romantic and certainly a story to share at dinner parties.

Others have said they wouldn’t mind a £1 ring as a placeholder, with Erica Vonderwall tweeting: “I think for the proposal, it's fine and fun but I can't see something that costs £1 lasting an eternity - which you'd want an engagement ring to!”

Bex Renshaw added: “I second this! As a proposal it would be fine, but I don’t think they’d last too long so I’d expect another one at some point. I feel like this would break within a week and leave me with a nice green hand.”

Molly Gould would rather spend the money on a memorable experience than a ring, tweeting: “I don’t have an interest in getting married so maybe that clouds my judgement but I wouldn’t mind! I’d rather we spent the ring money travelling or doing something memorable. It’s just a piece of jewellery!”

But others were dead against the idea, as @katieflossblog said: “Something that represents forever cannot be something that will not survive forever. Imagine having to remove it each time you wash your hands.”

Another social media user suggested that the Poundland rings were impersonal and had little thought to them. Laura at @tigerlillieread said: “My engagement ring wasn’t expensive in terms of the market. It wasn’t £1 but there was thought in it. For me a Poundland would have no thought in it, would not be personal unless you met at Poundland, or had a joke about it, or went there a lot. To me it has to be personal.”