Drama fans were tuning in to Channel 5 on Monday night for the broadcaster's latest offering.

Sheridan Smith is leading the cast of The Teacher as reckless English teacher, Jenna Garvey.

Jenna was first seen stumbling out of bed after a heavy night, before rushing into work at a plush-looking school.

It soon becomes clear that the teacher is trying to forget her troubles with boozy nights out but the school remains impressed with her teaching.

READ MORE: Holly Willoughby flooded with same comment as she shares sweet update amid ITV This Morning absence

So much show she is encouraged to go for an interview as head of English.

Before the end of the episode, viewers saw Jenna celebrating her promotion with a night out at a club.

But soon, Jenna is being accused of an illicit relationship with one of her 15-year-old pupils, Kyle.

Not able to remember what happened, the drama, which airs nightly until Thursday, will see her trying to piece together her version of events.

Despite the accusation, viewers were distracted by Jenna's outfits at work.

@SminkooSue tweeted: "#theteacher Sheridan Smith is awesome as always. BUT no teacher in the land wears a skirt that short to work. Really???"

"Never seen a teacher wear such a short skirt at work. #TheTeacher," @angelathompson5 said.

@Rozzy67 commented: "#TheTeacher Does Jenna not have a regular length skirt? Or some trousers maybe?"

"Sensational acting from @Sheridansmith1 in #Channel5 #theteacher this evening. Skirt was a bit short for a teacher tho, I'm sure teachers have a dress code," @Naphtali72 added.

Others, however, were hitting out at the comments over Sheridan's character's skirt.

@inquisitivevic said: "Disappointingly predictable that #TheTeacher is at least 20% judging Sheridan Smith's character by the length of her skirt. What century are we in again? How about her being a hot mess who does no marking, lesson planning, assessments and administrative paperwork all night!"

"Reading the hashtag #TheTeacher after the C5 program tonight and getting annoyed at how many people commenting on the length of her skirt. I know we have to dress in an appropriate way, but is the length of a skirt really indicative of how well someone can do their job?" @nourishworkplce tweeted.

To get all the latest news and gossip, click here to subscribe to our newsletters