Manchester United loaned out four players in January who had a combined nine starts between them this season and only one lined up in the Premier League. Teden Mengi, on loan at Birmingham, has played 30 minutes for the club since his debut on August 5 2020.

Anthony Martial, Donny van de Beek and Amad had practically become irrelevances. Van de Beek has not started a meaningful Premier League match since December 5 2020, Amad's sole start all season was in the dead-rubber against Young Boys and Martial lined up twice in the Premier League.

Yet the difference their absence makes to the perception of the United squad is marked. United have whittled down their core squad to 25 players and that includes third-choice 'keeper Tom Heaton and Hannibal Mejbri, an 18-year-old exposed to 15 minutes of Premier League football who has not trained with the first-team since November.

Lest we forget, United began the season as would-be title challengers. Their squad now is fourth-best at best, laden with disgruntled wantaways (two of them were denied loans on deadline day) and almost a fifth is out of contract in June. Nobody expects any of them to extend.

History highlights the risk of capping a squad at a maximum of 25 players. United encountered injury crises in the spring of 2015-16 and 2016-17 under different managers, the latter a consequence of mid-season departures.

It is a squad that consists of signings made by five different managers dating back to 2011, the summer Phil Jones joined United. Donny van de Beek was 14 back then. Jones has survived another window, his status unchanged from Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's first summer (fifth-choice centre-back). Van de Beek lasted 17 months.

Ralf Rangnick could feasibly select an attacking trio that lined up under Louis van Gaal six years ago (Lingard, Mata and Rashford) and there is a reason why club figures do not deride Jose Mourinho's reasonable recruitment - almost a quarter of the squad is made up of his signings.

Figures close to Jesse Lingard were dumbfounded to discover United were of the opinion he always wanted to stay at the club during the January window. You do not have to work within the industry to know he didn't.

The crisis management extended to Dean Henderson, supposedly not blocked from joining Watford on loan, only that is contradicted by Rangnick's clear insistence on having three credible 'keepers in his squad.

Aside from individuals' playing prospects, the squad dynamic is tricky. Dressing room sources say a culture has developed where certain players resent competition and one player is understood to be so jealous of any flattering attention his peers receive he has a tendency to badmouth them.

Another player blamed his woeful form on a teammate's struggles and was advised to be 'more selfish'. This is a product of United favouring individualistic glamour signings rather than team players with a selfless mindset to improve teammates.

Manchester City are so exceptional because their players are interchangeable. As soon as they broke the £70million barrier for a signing with the £100m Jack Grealish they encountered a maverick more suited to United who has not yet got up to speed. Industry observers believe Grealish and Jadon Sancho would thrive if they swapped clubs.

United have seven games in 22 days this month and United cannot let up in any of the three competitions. Bruno Fernandes has just regained his place and Marcus Rashford is about to. Both were run into the ground last season and, bar the visit of Championship side Middlesbrough in the FA Cup, there is not an obvious rest date: Burnley away, Southampton at home, Brighton at home, Leeds away, Atletico Madrid away, Watford at home.

Rashford's winner against West Ham elevated United from seventh to fourth and they stayed there after Tottenham succumbed to their usual collapse at Stamford Bridge and Arsenal were held by Burnley. Tottenham have two games in hand on United and Arsenal one (at Spurs), so United are in no position to rotate frivolously in the Elland Road bearpit or against 19th-placed Watford, whose last win was the 4-1 thrashing of United.

March serves up City, Tottenham, and Liverpool in the league. Martial scored against all three.