"It is like the nation is watching a ludicrous pantomime and everyone is laughing for the wrong reasons," said Sally Duffy.

Like people across the country, Sally kept to the tough lockdown rules imposed during the pandemic while there were reports of parties going on in No.10.

It meant she was unable to see her mum when she was told she had terminal cancer due to restrictions on visitors.

Sally was one of many shoppers out in Wythenshawe on Monday afternoon speaking their minds as Sue Gray's report into lockdown parties at Downing Street was released.

Just hours after the long awaited report into alleged parties that went on behind the doors of No.10 was released, the Manchester Evening News gauged the reaction from the public - and what the next steps should be.

READ MOREDowning Street lockdown parties 'should not have been allowed to happen'

The damning nine-page 'update' on Monday said 'at least some' of the gatherings were 'a serious failure to observe the standards expected of the entire British population at the time'.

It comes as the Met Police were called in to investigate gatherings which could potentially have broken lockdown restrictions issued by the same ministers behind No.10.

"The reality of all this is, if this had happened at any other work place and they had been holding parties behind closed doors, getting drunk and breaking the rules that the whole country had to follow, they would be struck off immediately," said Sally Duffy, from Wythenshawe.

"It is just an absolute disgrace and we have become a laughing stock. It is like the nation is just watching a ludicrous pantomime and we are all laughing for the wrong reasons."

She tragically lost her mum to cancer during the pandemic, and was told the news that she had the terminal illness over the phone due to restrictions on visitors at the time.

Sally added: "Just holding your hands up and saying sorry after the whole country has been treated like fools is just not good enough.

"The position of those in power has been completely abused in my opinion. There is just no public trust in the government anymore, especially now this report has come out.

"It also feels like they are completely out of touch with the real world.

"Whilst they are arguing on TV and trying to get one-up on eachother about these parties, real people are worrying about the rising cost of living, bills going up, taxes increasing.

"I think Boris has to go, but then it throws into question who else would sail the sinking ship.

"Like millions of others who missed hospital appointments or couldn't be with their loved ones when they were ill, it is heartbreaking.

"Sorry doesn't cut it, the damage has been done."

Civil Servant Sue Gray had been instructed to investigate a number of rule breaking parties allegedly held during lockdown, including the 'bring your own booze' gathering on 20 May 2020.

The report found 'failures of leadership and judgment' over Downing Street lockdown parties that 'should not have been allowed'.

The inquiry covers a total of 16 separate gatherings on 12 different dates.

Ms Gray is understood to have pared back the report following a request from the Metropolitan Police.

Mum-of-two Kelly Ashworth is a healthcare assistant who has had both of her jabs against Coronavirus.

She said: "I think the behaviour of the Prime Minister and all those in power, who we are supposed to trust, has been absolutely disgraceful.

"I have seen first hand how many families have struggled, not being able to see their loved ones for months.

"I haven't seen the report and don't know much about politics because they are all the same.

"The Prime Minister needs to resign after this. It has made me and so many across the country really angry. It is just completely wrong."

Michelle Ward, from Stretford, who was out shopping with her daughter, also told the M.E.N: " Whoever was involved in those parties should be fined by police just like any member of the public would have been.

"I agreed with the restrictions at the time, but I think they were so unclear and confusing, but people still tried their best to follow them and protect each other.

"Back in lockdown people were being given £10,000 fines for having secret raves and parties and we were told every day how important it was to follow the rules."

Jackie Yates and Georgina Mounfield also gave their thoughts to the Manchester Evening News on Monday, just hours after the scaled back report was published.

"I am annoyed and upset just like most people in this country," said Jackie.

"It is heartbreaking that so many followed the rules to the letter meanwhile all of this was going on by people we are supposed to trust and who should be setting an example.

"However there aren't many alternatives if Boris goes. Keir Starmer to me has no drive and hasn't given me any faith that Labour could have done any better.

"All of those who were involved at the parties should be held fully accountable and fined just like anybody else would."

Georgina added: "You just don't know what to believe, there have been so many reports on different parties it is hard to keep up.

"Even then we still don't know what exactly happened at these different parties, so it is hard to know what to believe.

"The hard part is the fact that so many made sacrifices and we have been laughed at."

Downing Street on Monday afternoon said the full report by Sue Gray would be published following the conclusion of the police investigation.

The Metropolitan Police said officers were reviewing “at pace” more than 300 images and 500 pages of information handed over from the Cabinet Office.

Sign up to the MEN email newsletters to get the latest on sport, news, what's on and more by following this link