With the January transfer window coming to a close, thoughts will soon be turning to who Manchester City could look to target in the summer.

City have been linked with some big names in the past 12 months, not least the likes of Harry Kane and Erling Haaland, although they will come at a cost – and a hefty one at that.

Therefore, Pep Guardiola may well turn his attentions to some of the young prospects around Europe or further afield — as he's done with Julian Alvarez — as he looks to address some of the positions that need new additions.

The CIES Football Observatory have issued their latest list of the highest-rated players born after 2002 playing outside of the big five leagues (Premier League, La Liga, Bundesliga, Serie A, Ligue 1) and there are certainly some names worth considering.

Here are five that could be of interest to City.

Although right-back might not be among Guardiola’s priorities for the summer, it could well still be an option, especially if the City boss decides he’s happy with Joao Cancelo at left-back.

With Kyle Walker turning 32 this year, it will soon be time to start thinking about potential understudies or replacements for him.

Devyne Rensch is just the latest in the long line of exciting talents coming through at Ajax, and he has already attracted attention from Juventus with his performances.

The 19-year-old is the highest-rated full-back on the index, and having been called up for his international debut with the Netherlands last year, he’s looks to be ready for the big time.

Left-back is an obvious area for City to target in the summer, with Oleksandr Zinchenko’s future up in the air, and the Ukrainian providing the only natural option in that position.

One of the highest ranked of the left-backs in the index comes in the shape of Victor Kristiansen, who plies his trade with FC Copenhagen.

The 19-year-old is among the top teenagers when it comes to assists this season, having been handed his professional debut in 2020 at the age of just 17.

He’s quickly rising through the ranks of Denmark’s youth teams. And with Kristiansen already making more appearances this season than last, he looks to be a player on an upward trajectory.

Under the radar might well be a stretch when it comes to Gravenberch, considering he is attracting attention from some of Europe’s top clubs.

It’s easy to see why though – the 19-year-old is the highest-rated player in all positions on the index, having well and truly established himself in Ajax’s side over the last couple of years.

City have already been linked with the midfielder, although Real Madrid, Barcelona, Borussia Dortmund and Liverpool have also been touted.

It would therefore be something of a coup if City were able to beat some of their European rivals and land the Netherlands international.

With Fernandinho looking likely to move on this summer, City will probably be in the market for a new defensive midfielder.

Declan Rice has been linked, although the West Ham star will come at a hefty price. And after shelling out £100million for Jack Grealish last summer, City might not be in the position to do so again this year on another England international.

And with Rodri excelling in the position, they would only really need an understudy to the Spaniard – step forward Mandela Keita.

The OH Leuven player, 19, is the top-rated option when it comes to out-and-out defensive midfielders, and as he develops into more of a regular in Belgium, he could prove to be one for the future.

Having now signed Alvarez, City already have one of the world’s most exciting forwards on their hands.

The Argentine will be heading to the Etihad at the end of the season, although there is the potential for him to extend his time on loan with River Plate should they progress in the Copa Libertadores.

Therefore, City may well look at other options as stop-gap, and Karim Adeyemi would no doubt come a lot cheaper than Kane and Haaland.

The 20-year-old can play as a striker or winger on either side, and has been attracting attention with his displays for RB Salzburg. Liverpool are said to be interested, so it would be an ideal opportunity to scupper one of their biggest rivals.

Sign up to our City newsletter so you never miss an update from the Etihad Stadium this season.