Considering Pep Guardiola isn't really one for engaging in January transfer window dealings, the sale of Ferran Torres and the signing of Julian Alvarez represents a busy mid-season window for the Manchester City boss.

Meanwhile, City's rivals have been scouring Europe in the footballing equivalent of an episode of Supermarket Sweep.

Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea all failed to plug the glaring gaps in their respective squads, though Liverpool were successful in bolstering their forward options following the £37m arrival of Luis Diaz.

Given Jurgen Klopp's men are likely to be City's nearest challengers for the Premier League title this season, seeing them add a talented forward to their already star-studded frontline should be cause for concern, right? Well, not necessarily.

In the MEN's latest City Facebook Live, City Is Ours team members Alex Brotherton and Dom Farrell discussed their rivals' January business and Alex isn't so sure Liverpool's move for Diaz is such a bad thing for City.

AB: "Liverpool are leading the chasing pack and they've gone out and signed Luis Diaz. That's a good signing for them but it is a sign that they're not in a great position.

"They've had to go out and spend a lot of money on a new attacker who's going to take time to bed into the squad and get up to the dynamics of how Liverpool play.

"Then you look at other teams as well, they've not been able to do anything that they needed to do in the market.

"City didn't really need to do anything. They've bought a lad for the future [ Alvarez ], left everything else as it is and, apart from Ferran, they haven't really lost anyone.

"I think City are in just as good shape as they were before.

While Ferran's move to Barcelona was the standout departure from City last month, a number of youngsters saw their loan deals terminated before being shipped out on temporary deals elsewhere.

Alex went on to add that City's decision to reconsider some of their youngsters' loan moves can only bode well for the future.

AB: "In terms of loan players leaving, we've seen a few deals. Three of the youth players have had their loan spells terminated and then City have sent them out on new deals.

"It looks like City weren't really happy with how things were going with Tommy Doyle at Hamburg and Taylor Harwood-Bellis at Anderlecht, so they've sent Doyle to Cardiff and Harwood-Bellis to Stoke.

"Only time will tell whether those loan deals prove to be any more fruitful for them but I think it's a good sign that City have noticed it's not really working out and they're not playing as much as they'd like, so if they're not progressing or developing as much as we'd hoped let's bring them back and send them somewhere new.

"Maybe in the summer Doyle and Harwood-Bellis might be in a place where they can have a full pre-season with Pep and maybe City will think they might need them or they'll loan them out again.

"It can't hurt to see that something isn't working and decide to try something new so, from that perspective, the fact City haven't brought anyone in is fine.

"They've changed the loan deals which is a pretty good sign. Overall, City are in a good place."

Are you happy with City's January business? Follow City Is Ours team - Ross Jackson, Alex Brotherton and Dom Farrell - on Twitter to get involved in the discussion and give us your thoughts in the comments section below.