The January transfer window slammed shut at 11pm last night for English clubs across the Premier League and EFL.

Notoriously a difficult month to make long term changes to your squad, many teams at the right end of the table have failed to spend huge money heading into the second half of the season.

Manchester City are no exception but they did manage to bring in Argentinian wonderkid Julian Alvarez from River Plate for £14.1m. The striker will stay on loan at River until the summer.

The only major exit from the Etihad Stadium was Ferran Torres who went for a cool £46.7m, plus add-ons, to Barcelona.

City's other departures came as loan exits for the likes of youngsters Taylor Harwood-Bellis, Tommy Doyle and Finley Burns while out-of-favour Patrick Roberts, Luka Ilic and Matt Smith joined Sunderland, Troyes and MK Dons respectively.

MEN Sport has run through how City's business compared with their title rivals, Liverpool and Chelsea:

Jurgen Klopp's number one addition in January was confirmed late in the window as Luis Diaz signed from Porto for £37m plus add-ons.

Labelled the next Cristiano Ronaldo, Diaz could prove to be a key player when it comes to the run-in.

Liverpool's two main exits last month came in the shape of loan moves.

Despite failing to sign Fulham's Fabio Carvalho, Neco Williams has made the reverse trip to Craven Cottage. Meanwhile Nat Phillips has completed a temporary switch to AFC Bournemouth as he looks for more long term football.

Major additions have not been forthcoming at Stamford Bridge this winter.

Youngsters Dylan Williams and Mason Burstow have come through the door from Derby County and Charlton Athletic respectively.

Departures of any real meaning have also been thin on the ground. despite the rumours linking Romelu Lukaku with a departure from Stamford Bridge after his controversial interview with Italian media just before the window opened.

The only 'first team player' to leave was Lewis Baker who in nine years at the club only featured for Chelsea's senior squad twice against Derby County and Chesterfield in the FA Cup. He has now left to join Championship side Stoke City.

For the most part, it's 'as you were' for all three clubs as the race for title heads towards its conclusion.

It will remain to be seen how crucial the addition of Diaz for Liverpool will be in their bid to regain the Premier League crown.

Sign up to our City newsletter so you never miss an update from the Etihad Stadium this season.