Manchester United striker Mason Greenwood has been removed from FIFA 22 by EA Sports.

Following the latest database update, which was released on all platforms including PlayStation, Xbox and PC on Tuesday, February 1, 2021, Greenwood no longer features on the popular football simulation gaming title in offline modes and has been removed from the United squad. However, the forward's FIFA 22 Ultimate Team item remains active, and can still be traded on the FUT 22 transfer market.

At the time of his removal from FIFA 22, Greenwood's virtual player had an overall rating of 79 out of 99 on the game, with a potential rating of 90 out of 99.

Greenwood was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault on Sunday afternoon, following allegations he was violent towards a woman. United confirmed on Sunday that the 20-year-old will not be training or playing for the club until further notice.

A statement from United on Sunday afternoon read: “Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice."

Greenwood was in custody overnight on Sunday and police were granted an extension to continue questioning him.

A GMP statement said: "Detectives have been granted additional time to speak to a man in his 20s who is being held on suspicion of rape and assault of a woman.

"The suspect was arrested yesterday (Sunday 30 January) afternoon and remains in custody.

"Enquiries are ongoing and the victim is being offered specialist support.

"We remind people to avoid any commentary or sharing of images that could compromise the victim's right to lifelong anonymity, or risk prejudicing a live investigation with active proceedings.

"If you're a victim of domestic abuse, or are concerned about someone you know, please use our online reporting facility or use our LiveChat facility on our website, or call 101.

"In an emergency that's on-going or life is in danger, always dial 999.

"Some victims may not feel comfortable speaking with the police, or may feel they need support to come forward and make a report. Greater Manchester Victims’ Services can provide independent emotional and practical support for anyone affected by crime.

"You can contact the service by visiting the website on https://www.gmvictims.org.uk/ or calling 0161 200 1950."

If you're a victim of domestic abuse, or are concerned about someone you know, you can use the Greater Manchester Police online reporting facility or use the LiveChat facility on their website, or call 101. If in immediate danger, call 999.