MOSCOW — For the first time in weeks, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is expected to speak on Tuesday about the crisis over Ukraine, with Russia massing troops and the West warning of the possibility that the Kremlin will use force.

Mr. Putin will hold a news conference that will conclude a visit by Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary, the Kremlin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told reporters.

He said that Russian officials were still drafting a response to American security proposals aimed at de-escalating the Ukraine crisis, and that they would be ready as soon as Mr. Putin “sees fit.”

Mr. Peskov also said that Russian and French officials were preparing a meeting between Mr. Putin and President Emmanuel Macron of France “in the near future.” Mr. Peskov did not specify where the meeting would take place.

Addressing earlier reports about a potential telephone call between Mr. Putin and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, Mr. Peskov said that no such phone call was being scheduled for Tuesday but that it might happen in the future.

Russian officials have denied any plans to attack Ukraine even as Mr. Putin himself kept silent on the matter. Mr. Putin last addressed the issue on Dec. 23, when he took a combative tone at his annual news conference in response to a British journalist who asked whether he would guarantee that Russia would not invade Ukraine.

“It was the United States that came with its missiles to our home, to the doorstep of our home,” Mr. Putin said. “And you demand from me some guarantees. You should give us guarantees. You! And right away, right now.”

Amid the mixed messaging, Russia has continued to mass troops around Ukraine, including in Belarus to the north. Russia says the troops gathering in Belarus will be taking part in snap military exercises from Feb. 10-20.

Mr. Putin has coupled the military buildup with demands that the West grant Russia “security guarantees” — including a legally binding commitment to roll back NATO’s presence in Eastern Europe and block Ukraine from ever joining the alliance.

The United States and NATO submitted written responses to Russia’s demands last week. Russian officials said afterward that Mr. Putin was studying the responses. He warned in December that Russia would take unspecified “military-technical” measures if the West did not satisfy those demands.

Even as he maintained a public silence on Ukraine — his near-daily on-camera appearances in recent weeks were all carefully stage-managed — Mr. Putin has engaged with the West behind the scenes.

One of his aides met with counterparts from Ukraine, France and Germany in Paris last week to try to jump-start the peace process for eastern Ukraine that the four countries hammered out in Minsk, Belarus, in 2015. The four officials are scheduled to meet again in Berlin this month.