The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also recommends that doctors provide respectful, neutral counseling when discussing the options of continuing or terminating the pregnancy to every woman with a prenatal diagnosis of a genetic disorder or a major structural abnormality. According to the National Council on Disability, 86 percent of medical providers talked about termination of the pregnancy after a prenatal diagnosis, whereas only 37 percent discussed continuing the pregnancy. Furthermore, genetic counselors and doctors who offer information overwhelmingly relate biomedical concerns without describing the social supports available for families, or the self-reported happiness of most people with Down syndrome.

In 2008, Congress unanimously passed the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, intended to ensure women receive accurate and up-to-date information about Down syndrome. But Congress never appropriated the funds necessary to put this law into action. Such funding could be used to provide balanced information about children with chromosomal conditions to medical providers, train health care workers to deliver prenatal diagnoses, and establish a hotline and other methods of support for women who receive a prenatal diagnosis.

The medical establishment assumes women want the option of abortion in the face of a positive test result. Indeed, 56 percent of Americans polled by Gallup in 2018 support women’s right to choose abortion in the first trimester when the child would be born with a mental disability, compared with 29 percent who said abortion should be legal in all circumstances. And while population-based studies have not been conducted to provide firm data about the effect of these new prenatal tests on termination rates, a comprehensive review of studies published from 1995 to 2011 suggests that 67 percent of American women who received Down syndrome diagnoses on prenatal tests had abortions.

I understand the fear many women feel in facing a prenatal diagnosis. I wish more of them knew that countless families with children with Down syndrome have lives marked by love and joy, lives that have been changed for the better. While I see every abortion as a tragic loss of life, I am especially saddened for the families who have chosen abortion because they feel scared or alone at the thought of raising a child with a disability.

These decisions appear to be individual ones, and yet every decision about whether or not to bring a child with a disability into our world is made within a social context. Women who choose to continue or to terminate pregnancies after receiving a prenatal diagnosis are not making solely personal decisions. They are making decisions that reflect their communal and social reality. These decisions both create and advance a less diverse world, a world less tethered to the limitations and vulnerabilities that invite us into relationships of mutual care and concern for one another.

If having a child with a disability is seen only as an individual choice rather than a socially supported and valuable way of being, we can imagine a future in which governmental support could be denied to women and families who “choose” to bring children with Down syndrome or other genetic conditions into the world.

Penny’s relatively ordinary life is due in large part to our own social situation. We live in a town with ample funding for special education. Penny received multiple therapies each week in her early years. She also has been expected and able to contribute to the life of her community. Those contributions are as ordinary as her mornings: A word of encouragement. An inability to hold a grudge. A love for nachos and Olivia Rodrigo and the color orange.