BRUSHING your teeth is a key element of everyone's daily routine.

But one dentist has warned that there could be one element you're missing when it comes to your mouth and it could slash your risk of illness.

Posting to TikTok, Dr. Mark Burhenne who runs 'Ask the dentist', said that flossing should be an element of your routine that you always squeeze in.

He said that there are reasons to floss that actually have nothing to do with your teeth.

"You can't be healthy without a healthy mouth", he said.

Dr Burhenne said flossing could help prevent three killer illnesses such as dementia, heart disease and blood clots as well as issues surrounding fertility.

Explaining in the comments section, he said: "According to a 2019 study, bacteria normally present in the mouth can release toxins that make their way to the brain, contributing to Alzheimer’s."

Experts at Harvard Medical School say there is a link to heart disease and good oral health.

They state that study after study has shown that those who have poor oral health and suffer with issues such as gum disease or tooth loss, often have higher rates of heart attacks and strokes than people who have good oral health.

They explained: "Studies have linked periodontal disease (especially if due to infection with a bacterium called porphyromonas gingivalis) and rheumatoid arthritis.

"In addition, a 2018 study found a link between this same bacterium and risk of pancreatic cancer. "

Dr Burhenne also added that flossing can reduce inflammation and C-reaction protein and that it can also boost your immune system.

Dr Nigel Carter, head of the British Dental Foundation previously said that the mouth can increase inflammation throughout the body.

"It can trigger the release of a large number of chemicals known as mediators, which are the same causes of the inflammation implicated in heart disease", he told The Independent.

A study published in 2008 by experts at the University of Bristol also found that if bacteria gets into the blood stream through the gums, then they can combine with platelets in the blood to create blood clots.

If these reach the heart then they can cause heart attacks in people who are fit and healthy - another reason why you should floss to keep bacteria in the mouth to a minimum.

Dr Burhenne said flossing can also boost fertility and prevent premature births.

In 2011, experts in Sweden found that women who had gum disease struggled to conceive more than those who had healthy gums.

The paper found that women with gum disease took seven months to conceive, rather than five months for the women who didn't have gum disease.

Lead researcher Professor Roger Hart, of the University of Western Australia, said: "Gum disease might be one of several factors that could be modified to improve the chances of a pregnancy."

In 2019 a study was also published in the Journal of Clinical Periodontology, which found that women who had poor gum health were more likely to give birth prematurely.

Researchers discovered that that women who entered labour early were 45 per cent more likely to have gum disease than women who experienced a perfect pregnancy 29 per cent.

Leading Central London-based dentist Dr Monik Vasant is urging patients to prioritise their oral care routines at home and return to the dentist for regular oral care check-ups.

Data from Colgate showed that half of Brits admit they haven’t been to the dentist since before the pandemic.

He comments, “The social factors surrounding the pandemic such as lockdown and homeworking have led to a decline in many people’s oral health.

"People don’t realise that not brushing your teeth twice a day, even just for two weeks, can result in a build-up in plaque that can have a lasting impact and we’re seeing this play out with the increase of patients presenting with gum disease and tooth decay.

“To get back on track with your oral health we’re encouraging people to simply;
• Change your brush or brush head every three months
• Clean in between your teeth (floss)
• And use a fluoride toothpaste with antibacterial ingredients such as Colgate Total, which has Dual Zinc Arginine technology that looks after the whole mouth, not just the teeth.