THE Bachelor returned for a new season on January 3, and viewers were introduced to the 31 women vying for Clayton Echard's heart.

The 28-year-old reality personality appears on the show alongside host Jesse Palmer.

Who went home on The Bachelor?

On the fourth week of the Bachelor, fans were shocked when Clayton decided to keep 'villian' Shanae.

While Cassidy was sent home early after the shocking revelation, three other girls were sent home at the rose ceremony.

Clayton eliminated Elizabeth, Kira and Melina at the rose ceremony leaving fans surprised.

On the second week of The Bachelor, none of the contestants went home on January 10, 2022.

Which included Cassidy, 26, who appeared to claim her title as the early villain of the season.

"At this point, there is no way I won't get a rose," she said, raising eyebrows among contestants.

The season, which premiered on January 3, started with 31 women and ended with 22, having lost two women before the rose ceremony.

Salley Carson, 26, was the first to go home after discovering she wasn't prepared for the feat.

Carson said that filming for The Bachelor happened to coincide with what was supposed to be her wedding day.

“This is when I should be walking down the aisle,’” she told Clayton. “This is when I should be having my first dance. I thought I was ready to do something like this, and I don't know if my heart is ready."

Claire Heilig, 28, was the second woman to leave, but it was Clayton who sent her home and said he didn’t “think it’s fair to have somebody here that doesn’t want to be here.”

The spray tan artist didn't feel a connection with Echard and told everyone but him about it. Claire was eventually kicked out of the competition after the two sat down and talked.

Daria Rose, Samantha Jeffries, Hailey Malles, Ivana Noble, Jane Paik, Lindsay Dobbs, and Rianna Hockaday were also sent home after not receiving a rose.

Clayton met over 20 ladies, some of whom made dramatic limo departures and are still very much in the game.

Hunter came in carrying a snake, Kira walked up to Clayton in lingerie and a lab coat, and Jill presented him with an urn containing the remains of her ex-boyfriends.

The full list of the women who live to see the mansion for another week is:

Where can I watch The Bachelor?

The Bachelor airs on ABC every Monday at 8pm ET.

Hulu, YouTube TV, fuboTV, and DIRECTV Stream all stream the show with a membership.

🌹 Follow all the latest news and stories on The Bachelor live blog...