TRANSFERS will be refreshed this Friday (4th February) just in time for Dream Team gaffers to make changes ahead of Game Week 22.

As always, the schedule should inform your strategy.

Backing players with plentiful (and favourable) fixtures generally results in more points.

With that in mind, let’s take a closer look at the February fixtures for each team currently in the top half of the Premier League…

If you’re not licking your lips at the potential here then your instincts aren’t fully sharpened.

The likes of Kevin De Bruyne (£6.4m), Joao Cancelo (£6.3m) and Aymeric Laporte (£4.5m) should all continue their prosperous form once we’re back underway.

As if a set of favourable domestic match-ups wasn’t enough, Pep Guardiola’s side were gifted a friendly Champions League round of 16 tie in the form of Sporting CP – a trip to the Portuguese capital should be relatively straightforward affair.

A mixed bag here with three very appealing fixtures (Cardiff, Burnley, Norwich) balanced out by a trio of tougher tests (Leicester, Inter, Chelsea).

Mohamed Salah (£8.2m) will either return for the Foxes’ trip to Anfield or the following game against Sean Dyche’s mob, depending on Egypt’s Africa Cup of Nations progress.

It’s important to note that the Blues’ Club World Cup games DO NOT count towards Dream Team and therefore we haven’t listed them.

Consequently, it could be slim pickings for Chelsea assets this month purely because of their limited number of active fixtures.

A trip to Diego Simeone’s back garden stands out as the only real cause for concern here.

If the Red Devils are to kick on under Ralf Rangnick then this month is surely the time to string some wins together.

Bruno Fernandes (£5.2m) and Cristiano Ronaldo (£7.9m) will be popular men in the coming Game Weeks.

The Hammers comfortably made it through to the round of 16 of the Europa League but won’t resume European commitments until March.

Wolves are solid at the back but it’s likely Jarrod Bowen (£4.4m) and company will have enough joy against the other defences they’ll face this month.

Yes, that really is it for the Gunners in February.

Having been eliminated from the FA Cup and without European games to fulfil, plus a quirk in the Premier League schedule, Mikel Arteta’s side workload is ridiculously light at this stage but remember, previously postponed games may be rescheduled.

A hat-trick of home fixtures is always pleasant but Antonio Conte will know not to take any of his opposite numbers lightly this month – it looks like a string of interesting tactical battles.

Harry Kane (£7.1m) was ticking along nicely before the break while Son Heung-min (£5.2m) is expected to return to action sooner rather than later.

With all due respect to Dean Smith’s side, Norwich are evidently the easiest opponent Bruno Lage will contend with this month, though perhaps the fact it’s an FA Cup fixture may change the dynamic.

Wolves face the three teams directly above them so a positive run could mould the league table in their favour dramatically.

The Seagulls are inadvertently going for the record of most draws in a Premier League campaign this season.

12 of their 22 league games have ended in a stalemate this term.

Notably, Brighton will rack up the miles on the road at the start of the month with three consecutive away days.

Tricky Premier League match-ups are offset by a tasty FA Cup game against half-rivals Forest and twin Europa Conference fixtures against a team you didn’t know existed.

The Foxes defence is vulnerable this season but they offer plenty going forward, not least through the in-form James Maddison (£3.9m) – how many points will he take off the team currently placed fifth in the Danish top flight over two legs?