NEWCASTLE have lifted themselves out of the three most likely clubs to get relegated from the Premier League.

The Magpies were among the three favourites at the start of deadline day but after signing two defenders before the window closed, they are no longer odds-on.

William Hill: Bet £10 and get £40 in free bets - CLAIM HERE*

Eddie Howe targeted defensive reinforcements on deadline day as they signed Dan Burn from Brighton and Aston Villa's Matt Targett.

Norwich are firm favourites for the drop and are odds-on at 2/9 to return to the Championship.

They are joined by Watford and Burnley who are also odds-on to get relegated at 3/10 and 1/2 respectively.

Burnley are bottom of the league but the Clarets have four games in hand over Norwich who are 17th and four points above Burnley.

Watford are second to bottom, a point behind Newcastle who currently occupy the final relegation spot.

There are three other clubs who are yet to convincingly pull away from the bottom three.

Everton, Brentford and Leeds are all a single price to be relegated.

William Hill: Bet £10 and get £40 in free bets - CLAIM HERE*

Former Leeds United and Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand believes Newcastle WILL stay up this season.

Speaking on his podcast Vibe with Five, he said: "I think Newcastle will stay up and then do big business in the summer. I think they’ll go big in the summer.

"They seem to be doing it more meticulous and strategic and less gung-ho than other teams who have had money straight away. I think they add one or two players (during the rest of the window) who will make an impact."

"Before Norwich went on this run they’re on at the moment I had them as certainties to go down.

"They’ve come out of nowhere but this break has killed their momentum.

"I think the bottom five are cut adrift. I’m going with Burnley, Watford and I think Norwich will get dragged back into it too.

"If this break hadn’t have happened I would give them a chance, but I think the break will ruin their momentum."

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

*Terms and conditions: 18+. Play Safe. When you sign-up via Mobile using promo code N40 and place a bet of £10/€10 or more we will give you 4x £10/€10 free bets credited after settlement of first qualifying bet, free bets will expire 30 days after the qualifying bet is placed, payment method/player/country restrictions apply. begambleaware.org

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose