A MUM was left furious after Argos sent her a £500 sofa with each half in a DIFFERENT colour.

Sara Hudgell, 26, bought a corner settee from the retail giant but was left gobsmacked when it arrived in charcoal - and beige.

Argos workers sent off the correct product but delivered the second part in a different colour because the correct one was 'out of stock'.

Sara and her husband Greg, 29, have since ordered Argos to pick up the sofa.

She said: "It's just ridiculous.

"We were told we had the wrong half because the grey was out of stock and they couldn't provide the other half of the sofa we wanted.

"Apparently it was a warehouse error - and someone thought it was a good idea to send out two different-coloured sofas. It's just ridiculous.

"They could collect it and we would get a refund, but the refund wouldn't be issued until five working days after it's collected.

"They said they could collect it and exchange [for another sofa] and we pay the difference, and 'in the meantime he's £30 for your troubles'.

"We're pretty much against the money when we have had such bad service.

"The woman we spoke to said they wouldn't issue a refund until after they collect the sofa - and it would take five working days.

"We're quite lucky that someone has offered to let us buy different sofa from somewhere else and we can pay them back then once we get a refund.

"At the minute we're just back to an empty space with no sofa.

"I would never buy from Argos again. We both have Argos credit cards but have decided to cancel them, they're not having any more purchases from us.

"It's so appalling it's laughable. It seems like one big joke, like someone is having a laugh."

The new mum, of Swansea, south Wales, says the retailer gave her an option to keep the mismatched sofa, return it or pay to upgrade for another model - but would be charged the difference.

She claimed she is now forced to care for three-week-old Arthur on her bed - because she doesn't want to mark the sofa before it's collected.

After Sara shared her delivery dilemma on social media, Argos offered to give her a full refund.

Argos said the mishap did "not meet their usual high standards."

They increased their offer of £30 compensation to £50 after her social media outcry.

A spokesman said: "We're in touch with Sara and Greg to apologise for their experiences, which do not meet our usual high standards.

"We have provided a full refund for the sofa as well as an additional gesture of goodwill.

"We're also arranging for the mismatched sofa, which was delivered in error, to be collected."

Sara's photos of the 'bizarre' sofa went viral, prompting some to quip it was a 'frankensofa'.

She added: "I'm still stuck upstairs because of this, I'm so angry.

"You couldn't make it up, it's just a complete shambles.

"The last sofa we had was just a small one we got off Facebook Marketplace just to tide us over.

"We're doing the house up and we finally got round to ordering the new sofa last Monday for delivery on Saturday.

"We've been looking for a corner sofa and chose the grey one for the colour scheme we are going for and that was in our budget.

"We ordered it on Monday and it was due to arrive on Saturday, I was looking forward to spending time downstairs.

"As we don't have the space to have two sofas in our living room we had already got rid of the other sofa and I'd spent the last couple of days sitting on the bed upstairs.

"They came about midday to deliver it. It was wrapped in cardboard and polythene so we couldn't see the colour of the sofa before they brought it into the house.

"I was upstairs with the baby. Greg unwrapped one part of the sofa and saw it was the wrong colour and shouted up to me, then he unwrapped the other half and saw it was the right colour.

"We phoned the delivery guy back and said 'we think you have made a mistake and the other half of our sofa is in your van'.

"He said it would have to go through Argos - even though it was just 20 minutes since he left.

"I felt very frustrated as he had only just left."

The sofa came several weeks after they ordered a £700 oven from Argos, only for it to arrive damaged and was later replaced.

"Thanks Argos for sending our new sofa in two colours because half of it was out of stock.

"Takes 'greige' to a whole new level don't you think?!

"Offer of £30 compensation more than makes up for it... NEXT JOKE PLEASE."

Louise Stephanie wrote: "Argos where can I buy one of these Frankenstein sofas?"

Sara Hudgell replied: "Louise Stephanie it's pot luck see, sometimes you get mismatched and sometimes items come with a dent the size of a small car in them...if you're lucky then both!!

El King commented: "Are you serious? I would have definitely cried."

Erin Paterson wrote: "I'm so sorry this happened...but I'm even more sorry for absolutely howling at this."