LET'S be honest - when we're between the sheets with our partner, burning calories isn't exactly at the forefront of our mind.

But if burning off that second slice of cake is a byproduct of some, ahem, quality time with our other half, then we're all ears.

So what sex positions burn the most calories, you ask? GolfSupport.com gave Fitbits to 112 heterosexual couples and told them to wear it while doing the deed.

If you're a lady who likes it on top then it's good news for you, because the results revealed that women burn the most during The Squat – 188 calories to be specific.

But if you want to burn off more than just the chocolate bar you ate, you can ramp it up a notch by going faster and lose up to 224.

Why not try switching it up and going reverse instead. You're bound to drop 137 calories while your bloke burns just 48.

If you consider yourself a pro in the bedroom then why not experiment with the Butter Churner position, which is certainly more advanced.

If you are brave enough to try it, you can lose approximately 179 in 30 minutes, while for men this position burns even more calories.

In fact, a bloke can burn around 211 calories while churning some butter making it the best sexercise for them.

The Kneeling Wheelbarrow is not only fun, but it also burns loads of calories.

Women can lose approximately 149 calories in this position, while men will burn around 167.

Another one that favours the brave is the Standing position, which is the second most intense position for men.

Blokes can burn around 198 calories trying to have some fun while not dropping their partner - ouch.

But ladies, you have to put in the work as well which means you'll burn approximately 145 calories in this position.

Spooning and The Eagle are the positions burning the least calories for women, while men put the least effort in during Cowgirl and reverse Cowgirl.

The trusty missionary didn’t make the top 12 positions for women, but it comes close in number 13 with ladies losing about 47 calories per 30 minutes session.

But calories aside, if you're wanting to know what gets women off the most it's Doggy Style followed by The Squat.

We also revealed the biggest mistakes that men make in the bedroom including the infamous ‘head push’.

In other sex and relationship news, this sex expert reveals the "gross habits" that men need to stop "immediately."

Meanwhile, mums rave over Poundland’s £1 vibrator which is the ultimate ‘cheap thrill’.