CHELTENHAM Festival has seen record-breaking ticket sales as anticipation for this year's meeting goes through the roof.

Already all general admission enclosures for Gold Cup day have sold out before the end of January for the first time ever.

For context, the Festival does not even start for another six weeks, with Gold Cup day coming on March, Friday 18.

Eager punters can still get tickets for the other three days of the meeting, but bosses have warned they are selling quickly.

General admission tickets already sold for the four days of racing are up a monster 37 per cent compared to the same period for 2019.

Cheltenham took place behind closed doors last year due to the Covid pandemic.

It meant punters were robbed of the chance to see Rachael Blackmore become the first woman to be crowned top jockey at the meeting.

But this year they are all set to send off the runners with the biggest ever Cheltenham roar at 1.30pm on Tuesday, March 15.

FREE BETS GET OVER £2,000 IN SIGN UP OFFERS HERE

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose

Similarly, interest for April's Grand National is spiking, with ticket sales there up 19 per cent compared to the same time in 2019 as well.

Nevin Truesdale, Chief Executive of The Jockey Club, said: "The Boodles Cheltenham Gold Cup and the Randox Grand National are two of the biggest sporting events in the calendar, so we’re delighted that they will once again take place in front of proper crowds.

"As an organisation which reinvests all its profits back into the sport under our Royal Charter commitment, this news is not only a huge boost to The Jockey Club – it’s massive for horseracing as an industry.

"We know that the past two years have been a time of real uncertainty for everyone, so it’s fantastic to see people’s eagerness to get back to our racecourses and their confidence to book tickets for our events months in advance returning.

"We do still have tickets available for the first three days of the Cheltenham Festival and for all three days of the Randox Grand National Festival, but I can’t stress enough how popular they are proving."

FREE BETS GET OVER £2,000 IN SIGN UP OFFERS HERE

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose