A MAN has divided opinion after he was kicked out of a hotel after arguing about ordering a takeaway to his room - despite the restaurant being closed.

His stunned wife took to Mumsnet, claiming staff removed all of his belongings from the room with no notice.

She wrote: "My partner has been working away and he's been stopping in hotels. He's stopped in this certain hotel before and never had a problem.

"The other night, he had a disagreement with a staff member, nothing audacious. Just a bit of a mix-up with the manager telling my partner he could do one thing, and the staff member saying he couldn't.

"So he goes to work the following morning and everything seems OK, he comes back to find the staff have gone into his room and packed all his belongings into his travel bag and suitcase and removed them from the room. Is this legal?"

She added that her partner "isn't the kind" to kick up a fuss, saying that he had stayed there for a month before Christmas, where he realised that that bar and restaurant was closed twice a week.

She continued: "He asked if it was OK to have a takeaway in there as there are no tables or chairs in his room, which would mean him eating on the bed.

"They said no problem. He's gone back this week and brought a takeaway in and the guy working that night said he can't have it in there.

"He questioned why, as he was allowed to before and the manager was OK with it, and the guy working there basically said 'because I said you cant'."

"The room was booked for four weeks and no one got in touch with him to explain what they were going to do or why.

"I find it quite alarming now that staff can come into your room and just go through and remove your things without your knowing."

People on Mumsnet were divided, with some shocked by the incident.

One person wrote: "Wow I didn't know hotels don't like you bringing in take away food - learnt something new today. Never had a problem when I've stayed in various hotels."

Someone else said: "I would definitely get in touch with the manager, just to find out what happened. Good luck.

Another person was less forgiving: "I'd leave a s***** review on TripAdvisor then resolve to stay at better hotels in future."

Others didn't believe that he would be kicked out over something so minor, with lots of hotel workers chipping in.

One said: "I work in a hotel. There's no way this would happen without numerous attempts to contact the guest first, by phone if necessary if they're not on site.

"And a guest bringing lucrative repeat business staying 4 weeks at a time would never be removed like this over something so minor. There's something you're husband isn't telling you."

Someone else agreed: "I work in a hotel, yes we can go in a room and pack up someone's belongings but this rarely, if ever happens.



"It also seems a massive reaction to him bringing a takeaway on the premises (which is also shocking to me)."

Another woman divided opinion after she complained that her boyfriend promised her a "nice night out" - but took her to Premier Inn.

And a flight attendant has revealed the one thing she does whenever she stays at a hotel to stay safe.