STRICTLY Come Dancing star Nikita Kuzmin was seen cosying up to both Maisie Smith and Tilly Ramsay as the show tour arrived in Sheffield.

It comes after the pro dancer, 24, was forced to pull out of the tour last month after catching Covid.

But now Nikita is back dancing with his partner Tilly, 20.

The Strictly tour started in Birmingham on January 20 and the line-up have already performed in Leeds, Newcastle and Manchester.

They are now in Sheffield for their next performance which will start tonight at 7.30pm.

Nikita was seen laughing and joking around with the girls in the northern city during some time off.

The dancer opted for a leopard print fur coat, grey trousers and a white t-shirt.

He accessorised with a brown bucket hat, funky sunglasses and white trainers.

His dance partner Tilly looked stylish as ever in a black puffa jacket, matching trousers and a pair of Nike trainers.

She kept herself warm with a light green beanie and completed the look with some gold hoop earrings.

Maisie, 20, rocked a brown North Face puffa jacket and green flared trousers for their outing.

The EastEnders star styled her fiery red hair into some French plaits and wore some white ear muffs.

Nikita revealed the devastating news that he tested positive for Covid last month.

The TV star told his followers on Instagram: "So sad to be missing a portion of the Strictly Live Tour, but unfortunately I tested Positive for COVID-19."

"Lots of luck to all the amazing Strictly Cast.

"Will be back as soon as I can :)"

Nikita, who is in a relationship with Nicole Wirt, placed fifth with on the nineteenth series of the BBC dance competition last year alongside Gordon Ramsay's daughter Tilly.

Throughout their stint on the show, they left fans guessing whether they had the hots for each other because of their electric chemistry on screen.

However The Sun revealed last month that the celebrity chef had joined A-list celeb dating app, and she met Nicole in secret.

Just last month Nikita and Maisie Smith couldn't keep their hands off each other as they left Strictly tour rehearsals together.

Maisie, who stepped in to replace AJ Odudu and dance with Kai Widdrington, 26, was seen sharing a joke with Nikita before he slung an arm around her.

The former Tiffany Butcher actress took part in Strictly 2020 with partner Gorka Márquez.

Kai was recently seen getting cosy Maisie, and just two days before was caught kissing Strictly star Nadiya Bychkova, 32 in a hotel.

The Strictly tour has remaining shows in Liverpool, Glasgow, Nottingham and London.

Nikita, Maisie and Tilly will be joined on stage by Rose Alying-Ellis, Giovanni Pernice, Sara Davies, Aljaž Škorjanec, Max George, Katya Jones, Rhys Stephenson, Nancy Xu, John Whaite and Johannes Radebe.

The tour is presented by Janette Manrara.

The judges are Craig Revel Horwood, Shirley Ballas and Bruno Tonioli.