THE brand new Drag Race spin-off kicks off on BBC Three Tonight, February 1.

With queens from the UK, the US, Canada, Thailand and Holland, this is a line-up to get excited about. Find out here who will be appearing on your screen.

Who is in the cast of RuPaul’s Drag Race UK vs The World?

Baga Chipz will be entering the upcoming BBC Three series as one of the queens.

They are best known for finishing third place on RuPaul’s Drag Race Uk season 1.

Since leaving the show, they have been busy appearing on Celebrity MasterChef, Netflix’s I Like To Watch, The Celebrity Circle, Celebrity Karaoke Club and Brassic.

Drag Race UK series one contestant Blu Hydrangea is back for this international spin-off.

The Northern Irish queen is reuniting with Cheryl Hole and Baga Chipz to represent the UK.

They came fifth place on Drag Race Uk’s first ever series.

The 25-year-old has since hosted BBC Three's Strictly Frocked Up and appeared in shows such as Be Here, Be Queer and God Shave the Queens.

The Essex queen Cheryl Hole is returning to Drag Race after they came fourth place on the Uk’s first ever series.

Since leaving the show in 2019, Cheryl has appeared on Your Face or Mine, Celebrity Juice, Celebs on the Farm, The Only Way Is Essex, Be Here, Be Queer and Netflix's I Like To Watch UK.

Cheryl has over 290 thousand followers on Instagram where they post their latest looks and career ventures.

Holland queen Janey Jacké is back after competing in the first series of Drag Race Holland, on which she came in second place.

She ended up winning two maxi challenges on her series of Drag Race Holland,, including the iconic Rusical challenge.

The Dutch queen has teased that she'll be approaching the competition "with a lot of fire, a lot of feistiness".

Self-professed Canadian drag clown Jimbo came fourth place on Canada’s Drag Race after winning the Snatch Game in their series as Joan Rivers.

Talking about taking part in the upcoming series, they said: "I'm going to fight for that crown and I'm going to be myself".

Jujubee is determined to become the winner of Drag Race, with the All Star competing in their sixth drag competition.

This is just 12 years after she made her debut in the franchise.

They are best known for coming third place on the second season of RuPaul’s Drag Race.

They have also appeared in AJ and the Queen, Dragnificent, I Like To Watch and released music with Drag Race alumni Miz Cracker and Blair St. Clair.

Canadian queen Lemon is traveling across waters to land in the UK to snatch that Drag Race crown.

They will be representing the country alongside their Canada's Drag Race co-star Jimbo.

The Toronto-based contestant came in fifth place on Canada's version of Drag Race.

Lemon has since modelled in New York Fashion Week and collaborated with winner Priyanka on their single Come Through.

They are best known for competing on the tenth season of RuPaul's Drag Race as well as the fourth season of All Stars.

Since the show they have appeared in AJ and the Queen, RuPaul's Celebrity Drag Race and are due to make a guest appearance in the next series of iCarly.

Pangina Heals is one of the most popular drag performers in Asia.

They are best known for hosting Drag Race Thailand alongside Art Arya.

Pangina said that she hopes she "makes [her] country proud".

When is RuPaul’s Drag Race vs The World on TV?

RuPaul's Drag Race UK vs The World kicks off on BBC Three at 7pm on Tuesday February 1.