THE HEARTWARMING final act of kindness of Walking Dead star Moses J Moseley has been revealed.

The 31-year-old actor had generously donated his cameo earnings to mental health charities, just months before he was found dead in a suspected suicide.

The kind-hearted star had shared a post on his Facebook account telling his fans about his decision to offer the money to the charities.

He wrote: "Hey everybody starting this October im giving 100% of my cameo proceeds to support mental health so if you would like a positive video from me check me out on cameo! Check out my Cameo profile."

The actor was found with a gunshot wound on Wednesday in the Hudson Bridge area of Stockbridge, Georgia.

An investigation is underway to determine how the actor's body ended up there and if foul play was involved.

Moseley who played one of the zombies on the hit show had not contacted his family since last Sunday, according to TMZ.

A missing person’s report was filed and they contacted OnStar to track him, eventually discovering his body.

Cops told the outlet that the star's death is being investigated as a possible suicide.

Moses' manager, Tabatha Minchew, said of the TV star: "He was loved by everyone who met him. Such a bright light in everyone's eyes."

Actor Jeremy Palko, who played Andy on the AMC show from 2016 to 2017, posted a picture of himself with Moseley on Twitter.

He said: "Heartbroken to hear of the passing of @MosesMoseley. Just an absolute kind and wonderful human being You will be missed my friend. #TWDFamily,'

His fellow co-star Addy Miller tweeted: "so heartbroken to hear about the passing of this bright, kind soul.

"moses had such a positive energy around him and always lifted those around him.

"twd family won’t be the same without him. rest in peace, moses"

Another co-star Melissa Cowan branded him "truly one of a kind and a class act" and "always nice, funny and a smile to light any room."

The show also paid tribute to the late actor tweeting: "Our thoughts and prayers are with our #TWDFamily member Moses J. Moseley."

Days before his death, the actor posted a note of optimism heading into 2022.

On New Year's Eve, Moses shared one of his final Instagram posts.

Along with a collage of some of his recent work, he shared his hopes ahead of the new year.

He penned: "I just want to say thank you to The Most High and everyone who helped make this year the most successful year of my life.

"I know 2022 is going to be even better. Wishing everyone a happy, safe and prosperous New Year! May this year bring us all everything we desire and more!"

In one of his final Facebook posts, the star wished his mom and dad a happy birthday.