An upset woman has slammed her entitled mother-in-law for insulting the baby name she chose in tribute to her best friend who tragically passed away.

The anonymous woman, 27, from the US, took to Reddit and explained how she is pregnant with her first child with her 29-year-old husband.

She went on to explain how her mother-in-law visited over the weekend, trashed their home and paid her no attention during the visit.

"All she does is fuss over how my husband is going to be a dad and she's going to be a grandma, ignoring the woman literally carrying her grandchild," she explained.

And things went from bad to worse over Sunday dinner, when her mother-in-law asked the pair what they had decided to name their baby.

FABULOUS BINGO: GET A £5 FREE BONUS WITH NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED

The woman explained how while they hadn't decided on a first name yet, they had made the choice to give her the middle name Genesis in honour of a deceased friend of hers whom she "loved very much."

She then kindly informed the mother-in-law that if she had any suggestions for her first name, they would be "more than happy" to hear them.

But rather than comment on the touching tribute, the woman claimed her mother-in-law turned around and gave her the "dirtiest look" she's ever received in her life.

Speaking of her mother-in-law, she continued: "She proceeds with a long stupid rant.

"First of all why was I not informed that you had already made a choice regarding my granddaughter's name.

Did you even consult (my husband) when you decided to give the baby that name?!"

Look, I'm sure your friend was a great person but I don't approve of the name at all!"

I'm sorry, the person may have been nice but the name isn't nice at all!"

But that wasn't all...the frustrated woman went on to say how her mother-in-law went on to brand her "opposite of what a mum should be" and told her she's "ashamed" she is carrying her grandchild.

Taking to the comments section, many were left horrified by the revelation - with some even saying they'd refuse to let her see the baby once he or she is born.

"She would never get to be my baby's grandma," commented one, while a second agreed: "She would never set EYES on my baby after that."

A third added: "If she says she's ashamed that your carrying 'her' grandchild, she definitely has no reason, need, or possible chance of ever meeting her grandchild, that she'll be so ashamed off.

"A good reason, by her own reasoning, for her never to meet them. Don't let her trample your happiness, cut her off completely, you have every right to."

Elsewhere, a fourth penned: "This woman would be dead to me and I'd never let your child meet her at all. That's the most toxic garbage I've heard in awhile."

In other parenting news, cruel trolls accuse this mum of trying to hide her baby’s forehead by putting massive bows on her – but she just likes the style.

This mum is a "gentle parent" who never tells her children to stop crying.

Plus, this woman gets virtually no sleep after falling pregnant just eight weeks after giving birth.