FUMING Arsenal fans have taken to social media to vent after seeing their side fail to sign a single player in January.

The Gunners are in with a shot of securing a top four position that would see them return to the Champions League for the first time since the 2016-17 season.

Boss Mikel Arteta was keen to recruit some fresh talent that could help his current crop.

But instead, Arsenal opted to trim their squad - letting a number of players go while not recruiting anyone.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang heads the list of departees, which also includes Calum Chambers and Sead Kolasinac.

All three were allowed to leave on free transfers, while Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Pablo Mari and Folarin Balogun were also sent out on loan.

Things weren't helped by fans seeing former targets Bruno Guimaraes and Dusan Vlahovic sign for Newcastle and Juventus respectively.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

Arsenal Twitter has been awash with memes and comments when it's come to the club's transfer business.

One fan posted a picture of a lone Gunnersaurus stood in the centre circle, captioning it: "Last man standing."

While the replies to the club's first tweet post Deadline Day, wishing fans a happy Lunar New Year, were full of disgruntled fans.

One used a meme that illustrated the fanbase's excitement at potentially seeing Dembele link up with pal Aubameyang at the Emirates, only for the opposite occur.

While another used a meme with an Arsenal badge edited over Michael Scott's face, as Steve Carell's US Office character holds up a sign saying '0 days since our last nonsense'.

A third shows an edited whiteboard with a dog sat in front of it, mocking the club's transfer strategy.

An upset fan wrote: "We want a public apology from Arteta and Edu for not making any signings. Top 4 WAS possibility had we strengthened the team…. You guys are ruining my club."

While another supporter added: "Hopeless club. I hate the day I chose arsenal as my club."

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals