BRAZILIAN legend Ronaldo has claimed former team-mate Romario once took him partying until 5am to tire him out and take his place in the side.

Iconic Barcelona, Inter Milan and Real Madrid striker Ronaldo, who netted 62 times for his country, spent 11 years alongside Romario between 1994 and 2005.

And while they were both in the World Cup-winning 1994 squad together, Ronaldo admits there were negatives to being in the Brazil team with Romario.

Speaking on Twitch show Bobo TV, he claims: “I learned a lot from Romario and Bebeto.

“They were an inspiration for me even if Romario was a motherf***er because he forced young players to clean his boots or bring him coffees.

“A few years later, in 1997 I was an important player already.

"I had already won the Ballon d’Or and during the training retreat for the Copa America, Romario suddenly told me: ‘Get ready, we go out tonight, don’t worry.’

“He had prepared a ladder to climb over the hotel’s wall and there was a taxi waiting for us on the other side.

“We returned at 5am and I was exhausted the following day in training.

"I understood that Romario did it on purpose to tire me out and take my spot in the starting XI.”

Despite being one of the all-time great strikers, Ronaldo was infamous for partying during his career.

Last year, his former Real Madrid team-mate Ivan Helguera opened up about Ronaldo's antics.

The Spaniard told an Instagram Live interview with Spanish journalist Mister Chip: "Beckham, Zidane and Figo were great professionals.

"Ronaldo and Roberto Carlos, on the other hand, liked to go out a little more. But they certainly didn't do it every night.

"It happened if we played on a Saturday and, if we won, we all went out to celebrate. But it is absolutely not true that we went out on Friday or Saturday before important games.

"I remember a birthday party at Ronaldo's house, which he later sold to Sergio Ramos, where buses full of girls began to arrive. I was with my wife and we decided to leave, as did Figo."

Ronaldo scored 352 goals in 518 appearances during his club career.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

He won a host of trophies including the LaLiga title, Copa del Rey, Uefa Cup and Uefa Cup Winners' Cup.

Meanwhile with Brazil, Ronaldo was included in the squads for both the 1994 and 2002 triumphs.

He did not feature in 1994, but was the top scorer in the tournament eight years later.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals