NETFLIX has accidentally confirmed the launch of the powerful new chip inside Samsung's top-secret smartphone.

The Samsung Galaxy S22 is expected to launch in a matter of days – with supercharged performance.

Samsung is keeping close wraps on its new model.

But details about the new phone are leaking thick and fast – including through Netflix.

The streaming app maintains a long list of mobile phones and processors that support Netflix.

This list is regularly updated with new models and chips.

Now tech site XDA Developers has spotted that Netflix is now supporting the Exynos 2200.

Exynos is the name for Samsung's own processors – just like how Apple makes A-chips for the iPhone.

The Exynos 2200 has been announced by Samsung, but it hasn't appeared in any phones yet.

In January, Samsung announced that it would hold a major launch event in the next few weeks.

It then confirmed that this Galaxy Unpacked showcase would take place on February 9.

Samsung hasn't confirmed exactly what will be on show, other than a high-tier Galaxy smartphone.

This as-yet-unnamed device is expected to be called the Samsung Galaxy S22.

And it's almost certain that this phone will be powered by the new Exynos 2200 chip.

The Galaxy S22 is expected to be a major iPhone rival – with bleeding edge tech on board.

Journalist Evan Blass – known for leaking mobile news on Twitter as @evleaks – has already shared images of the device.

Samsung is expected to debut three models, including the Galaxy S22, Galaxy S22+ and Galaxy S22 Ultra.

The latter is reportedly intended as a replacement for the now-dead Galaxy Note line-up.

That means it will likely include a Samsung S-Pen stylus as standard.

This top model is also expected to feature a 6.8-inch QHD AMOLED display with a 120Hz refresh rate.

All three models are tipped to include the 4nm Exynos 2200 chipset.

And Samsung is likely to fit all of the new Galaxy S22 models with powerful cameras, including a 100x "Space Zoom" feature on the Ultra model.

Samsung hasn't confirmed much about the new phone officially.

But we'll hear more about it during the free-to-watch Galaxy Unpacked event.

The Sun's tech team will be reporting on the news live as it happens, so check back on February 9 for all things Samsung.
• Get the latest on Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram

In other news, Google Chrome users have been urged to delete their browser.

Check out the best iPhone 13 deals.

And take a look at your hidden Facebook rejection folder.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk