THE Cheltenham Festival ante post markets have been in full swing since March.

Shrewd punters have been busy plotting and predicting how this year's races will finish.

Irish trainers dominated last year and with the likes of Willie Mullins and Henry de Bromhead having such strong yards, it's no surprise many of their superstars lead the way again.

Here, SunSport looks at the ante post betting - and best free bet offers.

All odds correct at the time of writing and generally taken at best on offer. Favourite for every race listed.

Jonbon looked very, very, very impressive for Henderson when winning by six lengths on hurdling debut at Newbury.

But Constitution Hill is a mega market mover after winning on hurdles bow at Sandown on Tingle Creek weekend, with Hendo saying: "He is the most extraordinary creature I have come across."

He backed it up with a facile success in the Grade 1 Tolworth Hurdle at Sandown on January 8 and duly replaced stablemate Jonbon as favourite.

But Matt Chapman thinks Constitution Hill should at least be entered for the Champion Hurdle.

Kilcruit is a big drifter out to 10-1 following his shock defeat at 1-14 to Largy Debut - now 14s for this race - at Cork.

This is shaping up to be the race of the Festival (arguably) with Dysart Dynamo (4-1), Jonbon (9-2) and Sir Gerhard (5-1) all vying for favouritism.

Ferny Hollow came into 10-3 and Edwardstone 8-1 after their respective wins on the weekend ending December 5 but injury has ruled the ante post fav out.

Appreciate It was the big early favourite but an injury to the Willie Mullins-trained former Supreme winner means he will stay over hurdles for now.

10-1 Does He Know (Trainer: Kim Bailey)

Keep an eye on Appreciate It at 8-1. He will remain over hurdles after an injury put back plans for him to go chasing.

Sharjah has been trimmed to 8-1 also after winning the Grade 1 Matheson Hurdle for a fourth time, and could be seen as Honeysuckle's biggest rival.

Henry de Bromhead's horses have not been firing on all cylinders lately and he will be looking to turn around the form as the run up to Cheltenham really kicks into gear.

behind them in the betting sit Epatante (10-1), Zanahiyr (14-1) and Teahupoo (20-1).

Royal Kahala's victory in the Advent Surety EBF Mares Hurdle (Grade 3) didn't go unnoticed, and neither did Telmesomethinggirl's third-place finish, with Heaven Help Us sandwiched in between.

This race looks an intriguing ante post market but a devilishly difficult one to solve.

One at a bigger price could be Mrs Milner (from 12s to 10), who scored in the Pertemps Network Final Handicap Hurdle last Festival.

Out-and-out stayer Stattler ground out a nice victory over Farouk D'alene (10s) at Naas on January 30.

Threeunderthrufive could represent decent value at 10s given his sublime and highly consistent jumping.

Keep an eye on Britzka. He was joint-fav before finishing fourth to White Pepper at Fairyhouse on January 9.

He is 16-1 with some firms but 33s with others, while since then he has been hammered into 10s, along with The Tide Turns.

Two top Irish trainers head the betting here but Gordon Elliott looms large with the impressive Ginto (8-1).

He gave his Bective Stud owners their first Grade 1 with victory at Naas on January 2.

Stage Star has also tightened in price to around 7s after a win at Newbury on December 29.

Arguably none were as impressive as Dysart Dynamo winning the Moscow Flyer Novice Hurdle, although he looks set for the Supreme.

This is shaping up to be a belter should the horses touted to run actually do so.

Nicholls' Bravemansgame looks a monster and has started this season in style, deservedly going into 11-2.

Ahoy Senor has also come into 7-1 for this race on the back of his ridiculous 31-length win at Newbury at the end of November. although he now looks more like a contender for the National Hunt Chase.

As it is, Galopin Des Champs looks much the best horse in this race.

The six-year-old won on the snaff by 22 lengths at Leopardstown on December 28 and had the usually reserved Mullins waxing lyrical about just how good he was.

He continues to be backed, either alone or in multiples - although he has drifted as rumours spread he could go for the Turners.

You might agree with Matt Chapman in the sense that Shishkin has nothing to worry about in Energumene.

But the horse owned by billionaire Brighton owner Tony Bloom can only win what's in front of him and he did that well at Cork on his seasonal bow.

Is it enough to see off Henderson's superstar though...? Not on the evidence of their clash at Ascot at the end of January, with Shishkin winning an all-time classic.

This market changed dramatically overnight with the news JP McManus had bought leading French jumper Prengarde.

The horse has rocketed to the top of nearly all ante post markets, usurping Tiger Roll and Easysland (6-1).

Elliott said had he been at Aintree on December 4 then Tiger Roll wouldn't have run - as it was the horse was pulled up but was reported to be fine the day after.

The dual Grand National winner remains something of an enigma but we know he loves Cheltenham so expect him to be back to his best come March.

He and Easysland have accounted for the past four wins of this race.

And Tiger Roll has gone back into fav after Elliott released footage of him training over the cross country obstacles.

The big question between now and the Champion Bumper is just who the heck is going to come through and challenge American Mike?

Elliott has American Mike plotting the same path as notables Don Cossack, Death Duty, Samcro, Envoi Allen and Sir Gerhard.

The Bective Stud-owned four-year-old took a part rivals by 31 lengths to win the Listed Future Champions INH Flat Race on December 18 - a race won by subsequent Champion Bumper winner Sir Gerhard in 2020.

But 7-1 Redemption Day and Mercurey and 14-1 Pink In The Park - all Mullins-trained - are close behind.

FREE BETS GET OVER £2,000 IN SIGN UP OFFERS HERE

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose

Allaho ground out a real dogged victory in the John Durkan at Punchestown, leaving behind the likes of Envoi Allen and Asterion Forlonge, who was travelling supremely well before falling.

Winning jockey Patrick Mullins said: "It was hard work. He never really carried me forward. He was going left everywhere and never really had a cut at his fences."

Read into that what you will...

Will Buzz prove Henderson's other banker at the Festival?

The Cesarewitch winner has made all the right noises so far and looks like he could stay longer than the mother-in-law - until a hip fracture threw his entire racing career into serious doubt.

In his absence steps forward Champ, the winner of that unforgettable RSA in 2020... and the winner of the Long Walk Hurdle at Ascot on December 18.

But will he go back to fences - or stay over hurdles?

Either way he will have his work cut out to beat Klassical Dream, who benefitted from a slight headstart to win the Grade 1 Leopardstown Christmas Hurdle by two lengths from Flooring Porter.

This looks like being a cracker with the market leader closely followed by the erratic Brandy Love, who jumped miles left and nearly ran off the course when going down a narrow loser to Allegorie De Vassy at Fairyhouse on January 29.

Has there been a more impressive winner at Cheltenham this season than Pied Piper? Davy Russell didn't move a muscle as the four-year-old made a mockery of rivals with a nine-length win on Trials Day.

However, his future is uncertain and Elliott also saddles the current 7-2 second fav Fil Dor.

Willie Mullins' Vauban (9-2) comes third in the betting, in what looks a cracker.

A winner over the old and new courses by a combined seven lengths on his past two runs, Byrnes looks to have a cracker in Blazing Khal, who clearly loves the course.

But he will miss Cheltenham with injury, putting Ginto the favourite. Another Elliott stronghold with Henry de Bromhead's Journey With Me (6-1) sandwiching Ginto and third-fav Hollow Games (6-1), also trained by Elliott.

A Plus Tard has drifted slightly since being beaten by a short head by the now 6-1 Galvin in the Grade 1 Savills Chase in December.

Minella Indo is very weak to 8-1 after flopping in the King George, while that race's shock 28-1 winner Tornado Flyer comes into 10-1 for the Gold Cup, ahead of 12-1 Al Boum Photo, who returned to win at Tramore on New Year's Day, as is tradition.

Concertista looked better the further she went on chasing debut at Cork in the first weekend of December.

She loves Prestbury Park and heads the betting here ahead of Elimay (6-1).

FREE BETS GET OVER £2,000 IN SIGN UP OFFERS HERE

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose