ISRAEL ADESANYA is eyeing an even more 'devastating' finish of middleweight rival Robert Whittaker second time around.

The dynamic 185lb champion will renew his rivalry with The Reaper a week on Sunday morning in the main event of UFC 271 in Houston, Texas.

Nigerian-born New Zealander Adesanya scored a spectacular second-round knockout victory over Whittaker two years ago on a historic UFC 243 card to unify the middleweight titles.

But motivation hasn't been an issue for The Last Stylebender going into his fourth title defence, which he hopes to make even more of a statement in.

When asked how he's stayed motivated for his second tussle with Whittaker, Adesanya - an ambassador for leading cryptocurrency betting and gaming operator Stake.com -told SunSport: "That's not been the case this time.

"It's actually made me more motivated to do it again and do it more decisively, if that's even possible. Which it is, I believe so.

"That's what's my motivation for this fight, that's what got me up for this fight.

"Was to do it again in a more devastating fashion."

Adesanya, 32, will be hard-pressed to better his stunning stoppage of former middleweight king Whittaker, who has looked resurgent in his last three outings.

Improvements in his consecutive wins over Brit Darren Till, Jared Cannonier and Kelvin Gastelum catapulted Whittaker back to title contention and left fans salivating at the prospect of a rematch with Adesanya.

Those improvements in Whittaker's game - particularly his ability to mix up his wrestling with striking - haven't gone unnoticed by avid student of the game Adesanya.

The UFC's second African-born champion said: "To be honest, I've seen some improvements in his game.

"But it's not as drastic as you might think or you guys might believe. But they're improvements still."

Adesanya, however, believes his own improvements in the years since their historic clash at Melbourne's Marvel Stadium outweigh those made by the former champion.

He said: "I'm not just staying the same as well. You have to understand that I improve very, very fast [and] at a rapid rate.

"And I learn at a really fast pace. So yeah, I'm rolling with it."

Israel Adesanya is an ambassador for Stake.com, one of the leading and fastest-growing cryptocurrency betting and gaming operators worldwide.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS