FORMER Miss USA winner Cheslie Kryst lived in a glamorous $5,000 apartment that boasted impressive views of the Manhattan skyline.

The beauty pageant queen, 30, was found dead on a sidewalk in New York after falling from the 29th floor of her Midtown flat.

Kryst moved into the plush pad in September last year and often offered an insight into her apartment to her hundreds of thousands of followers on TikTok.

She filmed most of her clips in the second bedroom which she used as an office and closet.

The beauty pageant winner proudly showcased her shoe wall that contained shelves packed full of different pairs of heels and sneakers.

Hundreds of designer pairs were filmed resting on racks that she had built herself.

The top shelf was reserved for her different pairs of knee-high boots, while dozens of outfits hung on rails.

She also revealed where she stored her handbags, purses, belts, and jewelry.

Kryst also showed off her spacious bedroom and said her “favorite” part of the room was her makeup corner which featured a drawer packed full of cosmetics and beauty products.

Photos of family members could be seen throughout the plush apartment.

Read our Cheslie Kryst live blog for the very latest news and updates...

Her kitchen and living room boasted spectacular views of the New York landscape and the Hudson River could be seen in the distance.

The foil quote “Girls just want to be CEO” and what appears to be a pageant photo can be seen near her desk.

Kryst filmed videos of herself in the closet where she answered questions from her followers about her background in law and competing in beauty pageants.

And, in one of her last clips, she talked happily about being sent personalized M&Ms.

She also interviewed stars such as actor and director Denzel Washington as part of her work as a correspondent for Extra.

Kryst’s body was found near the Orion building – a 60 story skyscraper located in the Hells Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan.

The building features two outdoor sundecks and has a residents lounge on the 31st floor, according to City Reality.

Kryst's death was confirmed by her family on Sunday and colleague Billy Brush branded her passing as a "complete shock to us all".

Less than a year before her death, she revealed that she spent eight days in the hospital and wrote about “running out of time” in a chilling essay.

The ex Miss USA winner penned a heartbreaking piece about turning 30 where she discussed her struggles with aging, her work ethic, and her search for purpose.

Kryst wrote: “Turning 30 feels like a cold reminder that I’m running out of time to matter in society’s eyes – and it’s infuriating.”

The beauty pageant winner said she “cringed” at the thought of reaching the age.

Kryst is said to have left behind a note saying that “she wanted to leave everything” to her beauty pageant mom.

Police sources told The New York Post that Kryst left a note behind for her mom April Simpkins, who was awarded the gong of Mrs. North Carolina United States in 2002.

The beauty pageant winner once said her mum had inspired her.

She said: "My mom is my role model. I always look up to her and ask her for her advice."

Hours before her death, Kryst uploaded a chilling post on Instagram of herself captioned: “May this day bring you rest and peace.”

Kryst also practiced law in both North and South Carolina, with a focus on civil litigation.

She founded the fashion blog White Collar Glam, which focused on helping women dress professionally on the job.