WHETHER it's assisting with picking the suits, looking after the rings or greeting the guests, the best man has a vital role to play in the wedding day.

But TikTok user astrayphoto, from the US, shared an amusing video of one best man who got too carried away when it came to having a pre-wedding beer with the groom and got a "little too lit" before the ceremony.

In the clip, the best man, who is suited and booted, can be seen with his hands clasped in front of him, swaying back and forth as the bride and groom exchange vows in front of their friends and loved ones.

Shortly after the ceremony, the camera zooms to the best man who is then sprawled out on the floor and fast asleep next to three packets of crisps and a bin.

FABULOUS BINGO: GET A £5 FREE BONUS WITH NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED

Unsurprisingly, a caption which flashed up on the screen confirmed: "He missed his speech and the whole reception."

And it wasn't long before the comments from social media came flooding in.

"5 stars to the worse man," wrote one, while a second commented: "Poor guy, he will never hear the end of it."

Elsewhere, one person defended the best man and said the other members of the wedding party were just as at fault for not looking after him.

“Best Man isn't the only one to blame here. Rest of the crew should have mentioned to slow down (unless they didn't know him well)," they commented.

However, other social media users saw the funny side of the situation.

“If my best man isn’t like that I’d be disappointed,” joked one, while a second enthused: “If that’s not my best man then he’s not actually my best man.”

A third quipped: “Been there…. Don’t be ashamed. You had more fun than the rest," while a fourth added: ""Honestly he’s a soldier for standing the entire time."

In other wedding news, this woman bought a returns pallet of wedding dresses & got 10 designer gowns worth £40K for £500 – TWO were Oscar de la Renta.

Meanwhile, this bridezilla didn’t get a refund for her dress so she went ballistic in the store instead but it didn’t end well…

Plus, a bride was trolled for buying wedding dress online and expecting it to be perfect– people are ‘genuinely stunned’.