RIHANNA fans have long speculated that she may have dated Travis Scott before embarking on a relationship with fellow rapper A$AP Rocky.

The pair announced in January 2022 that are expecting their first child together later this year.

Travis Scott once dated Rihanna, but reportedly tried to keep it quiet.

According to a podcast released in 2020, the rapper would refuse to acknowledge Umbrella singer as his girlfriend, but would secretly call her his "muse."

The hush-hush romance between Travis and the Barbadian pop star apparently all went down before he met Kylie Jenner in 2017.

Speaking about the lowkey relationship as it blossomed in 2015, an E! News source told the tabloid that: "Travis and Rihanna are dating, officially. It's already very serious. He's very into her."

But the intense affection was reportedly one-sided as those close to the pop star believed that Rihanna wasn't so keen on letting people know that she was getting close with the rapper.

What has been said about Rihanna and Travis Scott's relationship?

Lawrence Schlossman claimed in his podcast Throwing Fits that Travis asked him to keep his relationship with Rihanna quiet after a cover story interview for Complex.

The former Complex editor said: "I broke the news about him and Rihanna, which they told me not to do."

"This was in 2015, 16, I wrote this. But apparently, for the next couple of years, [Travis] would complain about that."

Though Travis was angry with him, Lawrence suspected that it was Rihanna who told Travis to keep their relationship under wraps.

"It’s not because he’s like, 'Don’t tell anyone I’m smashing Rihanna.'

"It's because Rihanna's like, 'Don’t tell anyone that I’m smashing Travis Scott, please.' [It's] obviously embarrassing as f***."

Who is Travis Scott dating now?

Following his short relationship with Rihanna, Travis has been in an on-off relationship with Kylie Jenner since 2017.

After hiding her pregnancy, she gave birth to their first child together, daughter Stormi, in February 2018.

The celebs called it quits on their relationship in September 2019, but got back together in 2020 – despite ongoing rumours that they may call it quits.

In December 2021, outlets doubled down on the pairs commitment as they were reported to be "100% together and dating exclusively."

According to a report from TMZ the duo are "legitimate love birds."