A MUM has told how she feared her son would die after he was mowed down and left in a coma.

Rio Cooper, 8, left fighting for his life and spent five days in a medically induced coma at the Major Trauma Centre at Sheffield Children's Hospital.

He was crossing the road near his house in Conisbrough, near Doncaster, when was knocked over by the car last July.

His mum Natalie feared the worst and willed herself into thinking that her boy would wake up from the coma.

And she has now released the photograph to help raise funds for the helicopter team who she credits with saving his life by getting him to hospital in just six minutes.

Recalling the terrifying incident, Natalie said: "Rio was walking with a friend to the playing fields opposite our house when he was hit by a car.

"His friend ran back to get me.

"The air ambulance intercepted the 999 call and arrived within minutes.

"There were instantly so many people around Rio, they all knew their roles and sprung into action so quickly, and the doctor from the air ambulance briefed them too.

"They talk you through the worst-case scenarios, but I tried to keep positive.

"When they started to reduce the medication, one of the doctors said 'we'll just have to see how he wakes up, or if he wakes up'.

"I just thought to myself 'he must wake up' and thankfully he did.

"He was agitated and confused, but it was such a relief to see his eyes open again. I was just so grateful he was still here."

After he regained consciousness, Rio was transferred onto the High Dependency Unit before being moved onto the dedicated neurosciences ward.

He was diagnosed with Acquired Hydrocephalus, a build up of fluid on the brain.

Initially he had an external drain fitted to relieve the pressure in his brain which was then replaced by a permanent shunt.

Rio also required the use of a wheelchair and a frame, with reconstructive surgery meaning that two pins were placed into his leg.

He spent almost six weeks recovering in hospital then had weekly physiotherapy at his local hospital and received further support from occupational therapy at home.

Six months on, Rio is well on the road to recovery and enjoys playing video games and watching films on Netflix.

Medics expect the pins in his legs will be removed this summer.

And Natalie is helping the Air Ambulance raise money for a new helipad after crediting the charity with saving Rio's life.

The major trauma centre he was taken to was 45 minutes away by road from the scene of the accident, but the journey took just six minutes in a helicopter.

Natalie added: "The new Helipad is so important- not just for the vital time it would save, but the privacy and dignity it would bring too.

"People stopped what they were doing and stared, and in some cases got their phones out to film the helicopter too.

"I know it's an unusual event, but I remember thinking 'how could you? This is the worst moment of my life."