WHEN it comes to washing clothes, most of us live by the ''the more laundry detergent, the better'' motto - after all, it makes the garments smell better.

However, according to a cleaning whizz, going overboard with the liquid is actually harmful and will ruin your items.

''Don't let those pesky lines make you use too much laundry detergent,'' said the woman behind the Instagram eco account, @Brightly.

She then explained that when too much is added, not all of the soap will be rinsed out by the end of the wash.

This, she added, will leave you with ''residue-ridden, uncomfortable clothes''.

FABULOUS BINGO: GET A £5 FREE BONUS WITH NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED

In order to save your garments, as well as your washing machine, the sustainability whizz recommends using between one to two tablespoons of the liquid - almost enough to fill a shot glass, she added.

''Using the “less is more” approach can help you reduce the amount of detergent you’re buying, which is great for your clothes and the environment.

''Lighten up on the detergent, do a quick air-dry and you'll be good to go.''

''Agreed! I stopped following the instructions YEARS ago,'' read one positive comment.

However, for most viewers this amount didn't feel like enough, with one skeptical person writing: ''If you want to walk around smelling like last week's gym session by all means.

''It's depends on the amount of clothes you're washing, the detergent you're using, the size of your machines, and if they're maintained regularly.''

Someone else added: ''Good for you people that don't sweat and stain ever.''

''this is not actually that true,'' claimed a critical user.

''You need way more than 1-2 tablespoons, especially if your washing machine is not brand spanking new and your water is not PERFECT.

''Just cut the amount you normally use in half and you should be good.''

One viewer joked: ''Idk about you, but imma season my clothes like I season my food.''

Plus, you’ve been doing your laundry wrong – the five things you NEED to do before throwing clothes in the washing machine.

Also, mum shares three easy and FREE laundry hacks which will save you hours and banish ironing forever.

And you’ve been washing your black jeans wrong… and you should NEVER use fabric softener.