PHILLIP Schofield admitted he’s ‘cutting it fine’ to return to hosting duties on Dancing On Ice this weekend after catching Covid.

The 59-year-old revealed he had a positive reading last night, meaning he’s been forced off air on today’s This Morning – and it also puts his other show at risk.

Chatting to Rochelle Humes and Alison Hammond, who has taken his place last minute, he reassured them saying: “I’m fine. I haven’t even got a sore throat now, I sneezed twice and that’s it.”

Alison joked: “Maybe it was just a little bit of dust?”

Phil, who will have to isolate for at least five days, added: “I’ve got a slight temperature, but that’s about it.”

The presenter, who gave fans an insight into his home, continued: “Thankfully, we’re pretty careful in there, but there’s a number of things I’m disappointed about.

“Obviously I’m disappointed that I’m not there, we’re a little bit worried about Dancing on Ice as I’m cutting it a bit fine for Dancing on Ice on Sunday.”

Alison then went on to say how she was holding the fort, telling him: “With every cloud is a silver lining, I’m here darling, I’m going to hold the fort, eat your dumplings and I’m going to see if my tongue can get tested. Sit back, enjoy your time at home, relax, I got this babe.”

Phillip shared a snap of his lateral flow test showing two clear lines with his 3m followers on Monday night.

The This Morning and Dancing On Ice host captioned the post: "Well b*******."

Phillip was joined by Rochelle Humes on This Morning yesterday, which left many viewers scratching their heads over where co-host Holly Willoughby was.

It is thought the 40-year-old - who hosted Dancing on Ice alongside Phillip over the weekend - will return to the ITV programme later this week.

It was previously mentioned that Holly would be off for two weeks, but yesterday the singer replaced her for a third week running.

The Sun revealed earlier this month that Holly is taking a break from the show to work on Wim 'Iceman' Hof’s Superstar Survival with Lee Mack in Southern Europe.