TAMMY Slaton lost 115lb in just 30 days during her stay at a food addiction rehab.

The 1,000-lb Sisters star lost the weight at the facility after her lungs collapsed and she was put into a medically-induced coma.

Tammy's brother Chris Combs gave an update on her health in the season finale of 1,000-Lb Sisters on Monday night.

He told the camera: "So she's lost 100 - I think she told me 115lb in total in 30 days.

"I'm overjoyed that's she's ready to get on this train and start rolling down the tracks."

This means Tammy could be at around 534lb now. She is planning to stay in rehab for eight months.

December would have been the reality star's first full month in rehab, with January being her second full month.

If Tammy stays on track, it's possible she has lost another 50 to 100lb since the finale was filmed.

Dr Smith promised Tammy that if she’s able to dip under 500lb during her stay, he’ll arrange for her to come directly to him for weight loss surgery when she leaves the facility.

According to Mayo Clinic, candidates for weight loss surgery must show an effort to lose weight six months prior to surgery, have a BMI of 35 or higher, and at least one obesity-related medical condition.

In the season finale, Chris revealed Tammy was rushed to hospital one day after arriving at rehab because she couldn't breathe.

"They're just telling us that her lungs have given up, and like her body is shutting down," their sister Amanda said.

"So at this point, you know, we're facing making funeral arrangements for my little sister."

"I'm just sitting here thinking, Oh my god. She's been in such a bad place for so long. She waited too long. And now that she has the courage to step out and get the help that she needs, now this."

Tammy was placed on a ventilator and then put into a medically-induced coma at the hospital.

"They didn't know if she was going to make it through the night. Or make it through the next hour," Chris said.

"And we stayed four days or so up there. And then the last day we were there, she woke up. And she kept telling us she loved us and wanted to go home."

When Tammy woke up, she was given a tracheotomy - which involved having a breathing tube inserted in her throat.

After three weeks in hospital, she was able to return to rehab.

"I'm happy, I'm relieved, I'm still sad. I'm just grateful," Amanda said. "I'm just like, good looking out up there, you know. Thanks. We prayed for a miracle and God gave us one."

"She's okay. She's still alive. She has her life," their other sister, Amy, added.

Tammy has sparked concern on the TLC show with her partying, drinking, and smoking.

The TV personality had been struggling to lose weight and reach her goal of 550lb from 639lb.

She had previously made it clear that she was going to continue to live life her own way, despite the risks.

In one episode, Tammy was picked up by her friends to hang out.

During her confessional, she said: "We've just been drinking, vaping. As a teenager, I wasn't doing any partying. I was super shy about my weight and I didn't really have many friends."

She added: "But now, I'm at the point where I don't care. I'm gonna be me."

Tammy told viewers: "We don't eat healthily. Because for me, if I eat something like pizza or pizza rolls, the bread soaks up the alcohol and the grease helps so we don't get too hungover."

She also admitted to drinking eight bottles of liquor a week to cope with her mental health issues.