TYRES are often overlooked but regular checks on them can make sure they're road safe and help drivers avoid fines.

To make sure motorists don't end up out of pocket, you can do a few small checks can be made to make sure your tyres are in top condition.

You need to make sure your tyres have a tread of at least 1.6mm, any less than that can see drivers hit with a fine.

Driving around with bald tyres can see drivers slapped with a £2,500 fine per tyre, which means motorist could see a fine of £10,000 if this is an issue on all four tyres.

There is also three penalty points per tyre as well, so if all four are falling foul, you could get banned from driving.

Here are four checks motorist should be regularly doing on their tyres.

You can check the depth of your tyre tread using a 20p coin.

Insert the 20p coin into the tread grooves on the tyre.

If you are unable to see the outer ring of the coin then it means your tyre tread is over the 1.6mm minimum they need to be.

Drivers can also purchase a tread gauge if they want to use a professional tool to check their tyres.

The RAC recommends a tread of at least 3mm as stopping distances can decrease if below this amount.

Tyres will often lose pressure just from you driving your car on the roads.

Monthly checks of pressure should be carried out to make sure they are at the correct amount.

Each car manufacture is different on the amount of pressure the tyres should have.

You can check for the correct amount in your vehicles manual, printed either on the drivers door or inside of the cars fuel tank flap.

Make sure there is no wear and tyre

Do regular visual checks on the tyres to make sure they aren't impaired.

Things to look out for are cracks, lumps and bumps plus any cuts.

You can take your car to a garage and they can do a check over of your tyres for you if you're unsure on something.

Hitting a kerb or running over something can damage your tyres.

Before making any other journeys, you should be checking that your tyres haven't sustained any damage.

Again, this can be done at a garage if you are unsure.

Besides checking tyres, here are ten other car checks drivers should be doing in the winter.

Plus, make sure you're booking your MOT or you could face a £1,000 fine.

And with wintery weather hitting the UKs roads, drivers should be extra vigilant when driving.