A MUM has hit back at a cruel troll who asked if she puts her baby in massive bows to hide her forehead, insisting she just likes the style on her daughter.

Amy Ridler regularly shares videos of her children Roman and Ella on her TikTok page, with critics apparently taking issue with the large bow headbands she chooses to put on her little girl.

She shared a video in which she screenshot a comment from a troll which read: "No hate or nothing but do you put her in the big bows to hide her forehead?"

While she didn't directly comment on the remark itself in the video, she urged the person to #bekind in the caption for the clip.

Others were quick to comment on her love of bows, with some people admitting they don't understand the fascination with the accessory.

"Adorable baby, but the bows way too big," one person wrote.

"Beautiful baby but never understood the big bows," another person agreed, while a third commented, "I don't get the huge bows either".

"Never understood the bow," someone else wrote. "Those ridiculous thinks can give the baby a headache, trying wearing one on your head all day."

"She doesn’t wear it all day Karen," Amy hit back in response.

Other comments insisted Amy has every right to dress her daughter how she likes.

"SWEETEST GIRL! Why people make comments like this I’ll never understand," one person wrote.

"Mama she is beautiful!!!" another mum commented. "don’t let anyone say anything like that! you are doing so amazing."

And a third person remarked: "Not being funny but what’s it got to do with anyone else if she’s wearing big bows or small bows or no bows?"

In another video, Amy showed her baby girl wearing a "Texas-sized" daisy and polkadot bow, as she cooed at her daughter: "We love these don't we? You look so cute in them."

Speaking of babies, this parenting expert has shared her tips for choosing the perfect baby name.

This mum is a "gentle parent" who never tells her children to stop crying.

And this woman gets virtually no sleep after falling pregnant just eight weeks after giving birth.