A MUM was stabbed to death by her ex-husband before a ‘vigilante’ driver smashed into them and killed the knifeman, an inquest heard today.

Yasmin Wafah Chkaifi, 43, was killed in a "shocking and distressing" incident by her ex Leon McCaskie, 38, after dropping her children off at school in Maida Vale, West London.

Eyewitnesses heard the driver scream "what have I done" when he ploughed into violent McCaskie after he stabbed the mum-of-two.

Police arrested the 26-year-old driver on suspicion of murder, but have since released him on bail.

An inquest today heard that a warrant for McCaskies arrest had been issued on January 4 - twenty days before he stabbed her to death.

Family members of Yasmin, including her two sons, listened in to the short remote hearing.

Yasmin's cause of death was given as multiple stab wounds, while McCaskie's was multiple injuries.

His mother was also listening in to the hearing remotely, with both inquests being reviewed in July.

DCI Neil Rawlinson told the hearing: "Leon McCaskie and Yasmin Chkaifi had been in a relationship that ended several years ago.

"There were allegations of domestic abuse, and a stalking prevention order had been put in place against Leon.

"Leon had been arrested and charged for breaching this order, but failed to appear for his first hearing at court. A warrant was issued for his arrest on the January 4 2022.

"The two parties lived very close to one another in the Maida Vale area. On Monday, January 24 2022 at about 9am, Leon accosted Yasmin in the street, and repeatedly stabbed her with a knife.

"A member of public in a passing car, saw this and used his vehicle to drive into Leon in an attempt to stop the assault. Both Leon and Yasmin were declared deceased at the scene.

"An investigation has been taking place with me as the senior investigating officer. We have secured CCTV footage of the incident and obtained statements from several eyewitnesses who told us what they saw.

"We do continue to make efforts to get statements from other potential witnesses whose details we have.

"Police action between January 4 and 24 is currently subject to an independent investigation by the Independent Office for Police Conduct."

Coroner Professor Fiona Wilcox said: "I would like to pass my sympathy to Yasmin's family for their loss.

“This is a truly shocking and distressing death and I cannot imagine what you must be going through as a family at this time."

Thousands of people have backed the driver as a "hero" after his actions, and set up a petition to stop him being charged.

Police confirmed that the driver had been fully co-operating with the investigation and was bailed to a date in February.

The driver, known only as Abraham, said his “instant” thought was to “protect the woman who had been stabbed and the public.”

In a statement he said: “I am deeply sorry that the man I tried to stop from attacking other people has died.

"It was never my intention to harm him, I just wanted to shop him from hurting anybody further.

“My only regret is that god did not allow me to be present at the scene sooner so that my intervention may have saved the life of the young woman concerned.

“I did not intend to harm the attacker, I only intended to protect those being attacked."

Heartbroken family members of Yasmin hailed the driver as a “hero” for trying to save the mum who had a “heart of gold.”

A family spokeswoman told The Sun: “The man who killed my sister is a demon.

"The man who killed him is a hero. He deserves a medal from the queen."

McCaskie had been handed an interim stalking order by Met cops in relation to his ex, after years of abuse.

He failed to turn up to court in early January after being charged with breaching the restraining order last year.

Yasmin had previously confided in friends about how her ex had put cameras in her flat, stolen her post and phone in a sick bid to access her personal information.

Her family claim that she secured the order against him after their divorce three years ago, and was so terrified of him she installed a panic alarm in her flat.

Her son said: "He was ordered to keep away from her but recently had started stalking her, which got worse over the past few weeks.

"The whole family was worried about her ex because he could be very violent.

"The police should have done something when he didn’t turn up to court last week."

Family members paid tribute to Ms Chkaifi, a registered childminder, and said: "She was full of life, always stayed positive and always saw the best in everyone.

"Wafah loved to laugh, dance and leave a special impact on everyone's life that got to share it with her.

She has indeed left many broken from this awful and tragic news.

"Wafah was the most pure and genuine soul you would meet. She has left two amazing boys who will continue her legacy of being pure souls."

A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said: "A Stalking Prevention Order had been obtained against the deceased man, as a matter of course there will be a review by the Met's Directorate of Professional Standards NPTD further."