IF you've noticed strange skin symptoms recently, then it could be easy to brush it off as dry skin or even an allergy.

But experts have warned that there are certain skin signs that could mean you have contracted Omicron.

Throughout the pandemic, people who have caught Covid have displayed an array of symptoms, with the NHS listing a new persistent cough, a high temperature and a loss of smell as the main signs to watch out for.

Omicron has been proven to be milder than the variants that came before it and most people suffer with cold-like symptoms.

Data previously revealed that the three most common Omicron signs plaguing Brits are a cough, fatigue and headache.

But some people have also been displaying skin signs and these are the six most common.

Noticing that you or a loved one has pale, grey or blue coloured skin could be a warning sign of Omicron.

It is a rare complication in serious Covid cases which means oxygen levels in the blood are low.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has said it is an "emergency warning sign".

🔵 Follow our Covid live blog for all the latest updates

The CDC suggests seeking out help "immediately" if anyone notices the change in colour, along with trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, inability to stay awake or pale or new confusion.

Older and more vulnerable people are more likely to develop a more severe illness, especially with Omicron, but younger healthy people can in rare cases need medical help.

Previous data from the ZOE Symptom Tracker app states that people with Covid also experience skin rashes.

There are two different kinds of rashes logged by Brits who test positive.

The first is more like a hive-type rash that appears suddenly.

It can show up in the form of raised bumps and is very itchy - it can often start with intense itchy palms or soles.

The second is more like a prickly heat rash that pops up all over the body, although more common on the elbows, knees and the backs of hands and feet.

A GP in London previously warned that kids with Omicron had presented with rashes, but it hadn't been seen as prevalent in adults until recently.

Dr David Lloyd said he had seen about 15 per cent of youngsters with confirmed Omicron cases developing spots.

They also suffered with fatigue, headaches and a loss of appetite - which seems to fit with the most common variant symptoms reported so far in adults.

The experts at CovidSkinSigns have also reported multiple people coming forward with papular and viscular rashes.

They said: "It appears as red and bumpy areas which may occur anywhere on the body but like the elbows and knees as well as the back of the hands and feet. It can resemble bad prickly heat.

"In some cases, it is only tiny bumps all over the skin and the signs may be more subtle. This is also usually very itchy.

"The rash can also last well after the contagious stage is over and may also appear many weeks after the onset of the infection."

It seems to be that anyone of any age can get Covid toes.

Although in reports it seems children and teens suffer more with the condition.

It can present as red, inflamed toes sometimes with a rash. This can be sore and itchy, with blisters and swelling.

The affected toes, although some fingers have been reported too, can look red or purple.

Some patients can also get raised painful bumps or pus.

It can last for weeks or months, often with people suffering from it not experiencing the classic Covid symptoms.

This had been a key symptom for the main Covid variant that washed up in March 2020 and was also a key symptom for people who had Alpha.

Many people who catch Omicron say they experience cold-like symptoms and this has been found to extend to the lips which can be cold or chapped.

Experts at CovidSkinSigns said: "Lips may feel sore and can become dry and scaly as they recover. Soreness inside the mouth can also occur."

The experts at CovidSkinSigns have also had reports of many people suffering with eczema on their neck and chest.

They state: "This rash appears on the neck and on the anterior part of the chest at sites exposed to sunlight.

"It is usually quite pink and is very itchy. It can appear at any time during or after the infection and usually lasts a long time."

It's important that if you think you have contracted Covid then you get tested.

Knowing the result will help you protect others and you must isolate if you test positive.