BARCELONA new boy Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang boasts one of the wackiest supercar collections, featuring a £2million Ferrari.

The former Arsenal captain, 32, was handed a free transfer by the Gunners on Monday.

And he has not had to wait long for a new employer as Barcelona swooped.

The Catalans are due to confirm his arrival today after the North London club opted to save themselves around £15m in wages.

Aubamayeng, who was earning around £350,000-a-week at the Emirates, has used the fortune he has amassed from playing the beautiful game to splash out on an impressive car collection.

And he previously showed off five of his stunning fleet - which have been wrapped in silver, gold... and just about every colour of the rainbow on Instagram.

Auba had four Lamborghinis - two Urus 4x4s, an Aventador and his beloved Huracan Spyder - and his stunning LaFerrari parked on his front drive.

He has previously had his £270k Lamborghini Aventador, £150k Range Rover Sport and £140k Lamborghini Urus wrapped in gold at Yiannimize.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

But the former Borussia Dortmund star decided to take his modification to the next level when he booked in his gorgeous LaFerrari - but was criticised for "ruining" the exclusive supercar.

Four of the five finishes on display were done by celebrity car customiser Yianni Charalambous with the final one done by MS Motors in France.

Yianni wrote: "Car game on point. Completed it! The main man @aubameyang97 Garage goals say no more!"

But as well as the five on Instagram, Aubameyang has plenty more cars in his garage with at least a dozen in total - including a sleek white Bentley Bentayga, which starts at £133,000.

The full list also features another three Ferraris in the form of his £250k 812 Superfast, £205k Spyder and £200k 458 Italia.

And the collection boasts a Porsche Panamera Turbo Techart (£140k), the aforementioned Range Rover Sport Mansory (£150k), an Audi R8 V10 worth £160k and a stunning Aston Martin DB9 Volante 2, which costs around £250k.

Brilliantly, Auba was also once spotted driving around in a Volkswagen Beetle Cabriolet, costing a very modest £22,000.

Speaking about his love of cars, the Gunners front man said: "The clothes, the cars and all that are a bonus. I enjoy living this way.

"I like who I am and it doesn’t matter if other people can’t ­accept that – it goes over my head.

"As they say ‘you only live once’. It’s important to know where you come from and where your roots are – the rest is a big bonus."