NEIL LENNON, Grant McCann and John Terry are leading contenders for the Sunderland job.

That's according to bookmakers Ladbrokes, who've updated their 'Next Manager' market following the departure of Lee Johnson as Head Coach.

The 40-year-old arrived at the Stadium of Light in December 2020.

He won 41 of his 75 matches in charge and landed the club’s first victory at Wembley Stadium since 1973 when lifting the EFL Trophy.

Johnson boasted a 51.3 percent win rate and left with the Wearsiders sitting in third position - two points behind leaders Rotherham.

However, Saturday's 6-0 thrashing to Bolton was their eight defeat of the campaign and biggest since an 8-0 Premier League defeat at Southampton in 2014.

They have also played more games than their promotion rivals, and Sunderland chiefs were desperate to avoid a fifth-consecutive season in League One.

Sunderland said in a statement: "The process to appoint a new head coach will commence immediately and a further update regarding the club's interim coaching set-up will be communicated shortly."

The Black Cats are now looking for their 12th boss in a decade.

And the new boss will hope to ride the wave of optimism around the club after the January arrivals of Jermain Defoe, Trai Hume, Danny Batth, Patrick Roberts, Jack Clarke and Jay Matete.

But who will get the vacant position?

Duncan Ferguson opened up as the market leader but has drifted out of contention having agreed to join Frank Lampard's backroom staff at Everton.

Instead, Ladbrokes have appointed former Celtic boss Neil Lennon as the 2/1 favourite.

Lennon has been out of work since leaving Parkhead in February, but is desperate for a return to management.

He said in November: "It's frustrating. Some people probably assume that I’m not looking for a return to management because of the way it ended at Celtic.

"But nothing could be further from the truth. I’m still relatively young, as hungry as ever and believe I would bring something to any club. And I’d like to think my track record compares favourably to most."

Grant McCann is second in the betting at 3/1 having been relieved of his duties at Hull.

The 41-year-old led the Tigers to promotion from League One last season, finishing above Sunderland.

John Terry is available at 5/1, while Mick McCarthy and Sam Allardyce follow next at 5/1 and 12/1 respectively.

Neil Warnock and Paul Cook are outsiders of the pack at 16s.

Alex Apati of Ladbrokes said: "With Duncan Ferguson now seemingly staying put, it's Neil Lennon who leads the way in the race to replace Lee Johnson.

"However, the odds suggest a surprise move for Chelsea legend John Terry could still be on the cards for Sunderland."

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose

For help with a gambling problem, call the National Gambling Helpline on 0808 8020 133 or go to www.gamstop.co.uk to be excluded from all UK-regulated gambling websites.

*18+ New UK+IRE customers. Paypal and certain deposit types and bet types excluded. Min £5 bet within 14 days of account reg at min odds 1/2 = 4 x £5 free bets. Free bets valid for 7 days on sports, stake not returned, restrictions apply. T&Cs apply Begambleaware.org