KATE Lawler has refused to send her daughter Noa to nursery after she was hit on the head twice.

The 41-year-old revealed that she was "unsure" if she wanted to send her 11-month-old back to day care after an incident occurred last week.

Yesterday the Big Brother star took to Instagram to update her 402k followers on Instagram.

Kate said: "Anyway I want to thank you all for the outpouring love, support and advice regarding last week.

"I should point out this was the fifth nursery I viewed ad the only one I felt happy sending Noa to. You know when a nursery is the right one for you.

"Up until those two one hour settling in sessions in the nursery garden I didn't have any nerves or anxiety about her going in, but it got the better of me and so we've decided to wait at least six months before we consider her starting.

"So many parents said once she's there I won't look back and it's the best thing for their development/speech, making friends and while I'm not denying this is true, I have to go with my instinct."

The TV star continued: "This is the obvious mum guilt as I was excited about her forming friendships with babies her own age, but from the parents I've spoken to who also didn't send their kids to nursery this young, it's absolutely fine.

"There's no right or wrong way, we just have to do what we feel is right for our little ones and out mental health."

Kate then went on to explain how she socialises her daughter throughout the week, which includes swimming lessons and seeing her family members regularly.

The telly favourite explained that she will start doing weekly mum and dad baby groups to make sure that Noa is socialising with other kids.

Kate concluded that her followers should always "trust your gut and do what works for you and your family".

The star added: "I sound like I'm justifying my decision but it's more an explanation as I didn't get to talk to you about it after all of your kind messages on my post.

"I always feel awkward giving advice as a mum as I never feel like I have a clue what I'm doing but I just want to say if you're in the same position - feeling like it's the wrong decision to send your little one to nursery and you are fortunate enough to have other options like family/friends/childminders, then trust your gut and do what works for you and your family."

Last Thursday Kate shared an emotional post after her baby girl was "hit twice on the head" at nursery, and was unsure about if she wanted to send her back.

The mum-of-one was left horrified when she witnessed another child accidentally hit Noa with a toy twice.

Asking her followers for advice, Kate wrote: "Is it normal to have second thoughts after doing these sessions with your little one? I don’t want her to go anymore.

"I know I can’t wrap her up in cotton wool her entire life but what I observed yesterday and today made me worried about leaving her for two whole days a week with other people I don’t know.

"I realise the staff take care of children day in, day out and it’s their job to ensure our babies are kept safe, I have to trust them but my anxiety is out of control and I’m now terrified of something bad happening when I’m not there to look out for her.

"She’s only just able to crawl which even today she found tricky in her puddle suit and boots. She was t*****d on the head twice in 30 minutes by another baby pulling a truck, I saw one of the kids take a stone out of his mouth and it was really wet so he’d had it in there a while.

"Only when he went to put it back in did I stop him. If he’d have swallowed it, goodness knows what would have happened.

"What if that was Noa? What if she swallows it and chokes? Yesterday these were hypothetical worries I dismissed but I saw a toddler do it & now I’m spiralling. I don’t know what to do."

Kate and fiance Martin “Boj” Bojtos got engaged back in April 2018.

The pair welcomed Noa into the world in February 2021.