EMMERDALE viewers were in hysterics after they spotted a major gaffe with Kim Tate's fruit bowl on Monday's episode.

The scheming superbitch - played by Claire King in the ITV soap - struggled to get excited about her stepdaughter Dawn's wedding.

After jumping through numerous hurdles, Billy (Jay Kontzle) and Dawn (Olivia Bromley) are ready to take a leap of faith and finally tie the knot.

Since Billy asked for her hand, Dawn has been excitedly preparing for the big day, even asking Harriet Finch (Katherine Dow Blyton) to be her maid of honour.

On the latest instalment, Kim discovered that Dawn had picked a date for the wedding, but seemed to have other things on her mind.

She later confided in her boyfriend Will Taylor as they sat at the dining table.

However, ITV viewers were more distracted with the "blatantly fake" plastic fruit in Kim's bowl.

One viewer wrote: "Are those fruits supposed to be real? Looks fake to me. #Emmerdale"

Another posted: "That fruit looked very fake. Especially those bananas."

"Loving that glossy plastic fruit on Kim Tate's table," another said.

Someone else added: "That fruit is blatantly fake. #Emmerdale"

In upcoming scenes, Dawn's excitement is halted when her ex-boyfriend Alex (Liam Boyle) arrives in the Dales, amid her doomed wedding fears.

Yet, soon, an alarmed Dawn is approached by a pleading Alex who wants nothing more but a civil conversation with her about his previous actions.

ITV viewers remember all too well Alex's botched abduction attempt.

Back in December, 2021, Dawn's Christmas festivities were shaken up by Alex's arrival in the village… just in time for serial killer Meena Jutla to stir up some trouble.

The nurse - portrayed by Paige Sandhu - has a fight to pick with Dawn and will even return to the Dales with revenge on her mind, as Billy put an end to their fling to patch things up with her.

Following an altercation with Dawn about the time he would have liked to spend with Lucas against her wishes, Alex was faced with Billy who soon spoke out in her favour.

Alex was then told by Meena that young Lucas was not safe while in Dawn's care.

Later on, Dawn had a change of heart and she took Lucas to the park alongside Alex.

Meena persisted, approaching Alex to convince him to leave with Lucas and accusing Dawn of neglect.

This led Alex to take drastic action, unaware of Meena's real motives.

Alex made a run for it with Lucas, leaving Dawn distraught and desperate to find her little boy.

Billy came to the rescue and found Lucas as he was being pulled into Alex's van.

The events led up to Meena's plan backfiring as Billy and Dawn reconciled - but will Meena get her revenge on the happy bride-to-be?