Chinese New Year starts today – and with it comes a host of superstitions that will apparently dictate how the next 12 months will play out for each of us.

Washing clothes, using scissors and sweeping floors are some of the easier omens to sidestep. However, parents might find it difficult to dodge crying children and – on the more extreme end of the scale – women might find it difficult to avoid leaving the house all day.

According to Chinese superstition, doing any of these on Feb 1 – the day Chinese New Year falls in 2022 – will lead to bad luck for the entire coming year. But it isn’t all doom and gloom as 2022 is the Year of the Tiger, an animal that symbolises strength and being brave.

Here is everything you need to know about the annual celebration, as well as recipes to cook for a delicious family feast.

When is Chinese New Year 2022?

The Chinese year starts on Feb 1 2022 and ends on January 31 2023, when the Year of the Water Rabbit begins.

The new year, also known in China as the Spring Festival, is marked by the lunisolar Chinese calendar; this means the date changes from year to year.

The festivities usually start the day before the new year and continue until the Lantern Festival, the 15th day of the new year.

The Chinese zodiac is divided into 12 blocks (or houses) just like its western counterpart, but with the major difference that each house has a time-length of one year instead of one month.

Each Chinese New Year is characterised by one of 12 animals that appear in the Chinese zodiac – last year was the Year of the Ox.

People born in the Year of the Tiger are characterised as being brave, competitive and confident. But, on the other hand, they can sometimes be unpredictable, irritable, and overindulgent.

Lucky numbers for people born in the Year of the Tiger are one, three and four, and their lucky colours are blue, grey and orange. Their lucky flowers are cinerarias and anthuriums.

Which Chinese zodiac sign are you?

Your sign is derived from the year you were born in the Chinese lunar calendar.