You can measure the quality of the average men’s final by the surprise that greets the occasional let-down. When Novak Djokovic swatted Medvedev aside here last year in just 113 minutes, everyone went away with a sense of anti-climax. Was that really it?

Yet the women often troop on and off the stage in under 90 minutes, like an up-and-coming band who are still short of material. You see the occasional crackerjack, as when Barty needed almost two hours to edge past Karolina Pliskova at last summer’s Wimbledon. But that was highly unusual. It was also the first time in nine years that Centre Court had witnessed a deciding set on ladies’ final day.

The women’s game is famously open at the moment. Since Serena Williams’s last deep run at a major, in September 2019, Barty and Naomi Osaka are the only players to feature in more than one final. Even they have only appeared twice.

Reaching the trophy match for the first time, many players start out nervous and unprepared. They usually need time to grow into the contest. And once they have done so, it’s often too late. Those stress levels could potentially be offset by a longer format, just as every student would be glad of an extra week to write her dissertation.

For both genders to play best-of-five sets throughout a major is impractical. There simply isn’t enough court time. During the early rounds, we would be finishing at 4am every morning. The ideal solution would be best-of-three for men and women in the first week, then change it up for the quarter-finals onwards.

And yet, given that tennis struggles to tie its own shoelaces – administratively speaking – it might be wiser to start with baby steps. Begin by showcasing an extended women’s final, just as the old ATP Masters events played best-of-five-set finals until the late Noughties. If it works, widen the upgrade to the last three rounds, and keep building from there.

At the moment, the stark contrast in airtime and projection is unfair on great champions like Barty and Osaka. At most of the recent slams (although not, admittedly, this Australian Open), the women’s draw has delivered far more intrigue and excitement than the men’s. Let’s give them a chance to shine.

Do you agree that women's grand slam finals should also be best-of-five sets like the men's? Let us know in the comments section below