The day after Heather Knight had spent just 57 minutes off a cricket field across almost four days of play, England’s captain was merrily swinging away on a golf course. That Knight could stand, let alone strike a ball, after her 216 runs across the previous few days was a remarkable way to spend a day off. The buggies, we’re assured, helped.

Nevertheless, that Knight was not only able to turn to a different sport, but wanted to, was also entirely on theme for an elite athlete used to juggling many things, often at once. It also rather neatly encapsulates the mindset required of England’s women now, who have just three days to switch from the draining emotion of Test cricket to the demanding task of beating Australia’s women in all three upcoming ODIs, their strongest white-ball format and at home to boot.

England may be the reigning world champions in one-day internationals, having won, as reasonable outsiders, the 2017 World Cup one fine day at Lord’s. However, Australia are currently the world’s best. In fact, since their exit to India during the semi-finals of that World Cup, Australia have played 30 ODIs and lost just two. They went on a 26-match run of not losing a single ODI, a record which toppled Ricky Ponting’s Australian men’s side winning 22 consecutive ODIs in 2003.

Meg Lanning’s winning streak was only ended by India in September last year, in the third and final ODI of their multi-format series, already long decided in Australia’s favour. England will have to do better if they’ve a chance of winning this series, as they’re 6-4 down with each ODI win worth two points.

“We showed in the Test that we can go toe-to-toe with Australia,” said England’s Danni Wyatt, who hit a 54-ball 70 in the only T20I of the series which wasn’t washed out. “Every match is now a must-win. Which is a bit like in tournament cricket. We can’t start panicking and thinking, ‘Oh my god, we’ve got to win, we’ve got to win’, but if we approach it in a calm way, and know that we can win, then there’s no reason why we shouldn’t.

“There’s been a lot of talk about the Aussies, that they haven’t lost an ODI series in Australia since the 1980s and that they’ve hardly lost any ODIs recently. But they’ve got a few injuries, we’re in good form, there’s confidence in the team after the Test and everyone’s performing well.”

“It’s going to be an exciting three ODIs,” added Wyatt, who didn’t play the Test. “The girls are calm, everyone knows their role and the ones who played the Test have pulled up pretty well. We had a really good night after the heroics in the Test, and the girls let their hair down, which they needed. We had a little party back at the hotel and really got around each other to celebrate what was the best Test match I’ve seen, with some incredible individual performances. So, a couple of days off and then we kick the next leg off on Thursday.”

Wyatt also confirmed that there were no 6am visits from the local police for this particular hotel get-together. Instead, the only video analysis that Wyatt and her teammates have been busying themselves with is footage from that India win in September. As with England’s Katherine Brunt, who took eight wickets in the Test, India turned to their own seam-bowling veteran, Jhulan Goswami, who took three for 37 in India’s two-wicket win.

And while Brunt will be integral to England’s chances, it’s staying calm, as Wyatt said, which will keep England in the hunt. Because the likelihood is that in one of the, if not all three, games ahead Australia will produce a batting innings which will require a substantial, if not record-breaking, England equivalent. For India, it was the calm run-a-ball striking of their No 3 Yastika Bhatia on debut, building off a strong opening stand, which helped them complete their own record chase once Australia had posted 264.

Just like India, England will need contributions from their own young players after they almost came undone relying on their old guard too heavily in the Test. They’ll need performances from their spinners, like Charlie Dean, who was leading wicket-taker in England’s convincing series win against New Zealand in September last year, and Sophie Ecclestone, who will be disappointed for not having been able to heavily impact the Test. And then Sophia Dunkley, whose white-ball innings in the final hour of the Test match almost brought home an unlikely victory, may have to do something similar here.

All is not lost, but it will be the fight of England’s lives if they’re to pull it off.