Dominic Raab has said he cannot substantiate a claim made by Boris Johnson that Sir Keir Starmer “failed to prosecute Jimmy Savile”.

The Prime Minister made the comment in the House of Commons on Monday as he answered questions about the publication of Sue Gray’s report into alleged lockdown-busting Downing Street parties.

Mr Johnson told MPs: “This Leader of the Opposition, a former Director of Public Prosecutions - although he spent most of his time prosecuting journalists and failing to prosecute Jimmy Savile, as far as I can make out - chose to use this moment continually to prejudge a police inquiry.”

Sir Keir was Director of Public Prosecutions between November 2008 and November 2013, but he was not the reviewing lawyer for an investigation into Savile - who is now believed to have sexually abused as many as 500 young people - that took place in 2009.

A Reuters fact-check found no evidence Sir Keir was directly involved in the decision. Sir Keir commissioned an investigation after Savile’s death and once his abuse had been revealed. Alison Levitt QC, in her findings, was critical of how the case had been handled.

Asked about the comments on BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Tuesday, Mr Raab, the Justice Secretary, admitted he was unable to provide evidence for Mr Johnson’s claims.

“You’re talking [about] the comment that he made about prosecuting journalists and not prosecuting Jimmy Savile,” Mr Raab said. “This is the cut and thrust of parliamentary debate.

“I’m certainly not repeating it, I don’t have the facts. I’m not repeating it. One thing I would say though, I don’t have the facts to justify that. That’s for him to decide. I can’t substantiate that. I think that [is] the cut and thrust of the exchanges.

“I think it is quite right to look at Keir Starmer’s record between 2008 and 2013. Conviction rates for sexual offences and rape fell between 2008 and 2013. It is to do with Keir Starmer’s leadership as DPP. I just said I cannot substantiate that claim.”

“I was really struck yesterday in the House at how many Conservative MPs were disgusted at that untruth from the Despatch Box.

“Of course on our side, people were disgusted. But his own MPs couldn’t believe their Prime Minister had stooped that low. He’s degraded the whole office. And this is how he operates. He drags everybody into the gutter with him.”

Julian Smith, the Conservative MP for Skipton and Ripon, wrote on social media: “The smear made against Keir Starmer relating to Jimmy Savile yesterday is wrong & cannot be defended. It should be withdrawn.

“False and baseless personal slurs are dangerous, corrode trust & can't just be accepted as part of the cut & thrust of parliamentary debate.”

Mr Johnson's jibe at Sir Keir was also labelled “a disgrace” by a former Chief Prosecutor who worked alongside the Labour leader.

Nazir Afzal wrote: “[The] reference to Jimmy Savile by Boris Johnson was a disgrace to Parliament and the office of the Prime Minister. It's not true, I was there.

“Keir Starmer had nothing to do with the decisions taken. On the contrary, he supported me in bringing hundreds of child sex abusers to justice.”