Metropolitan Police officers joked about raping women, beating up their partners and killing black children, a damning report by the police watchdog has found.

Appalling messages shared on social media by officers mainly based at Charing Cross Police station in central London, reveals evidence of violent misogyny, racism and bullying within the ranks.

Nine linked investigations were launched by the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) in 2018 following reports that a police officer had sex with a drunk person at a police station.

The investigations focused on teams formed to tackle crime and disorder in the Westminster area and were expanded after officers came forward to report concerns about the conduct of colleagues.

Dozens of extremely offensive messages that had been shared between serving police officers were discovered including ones in which colleagues joked about rape and domestic violence.

There were also messages that were deeply racist and homophobic in nature.

In one message an officer wrote on WhatsApp: "I would happily rape you", while another officer was referred to as "mcrapey raperson".

Another wrote: "Getting a woman into bed is like spreading butter. It can be done with a credit card but it's quicker and easier to use a knife."

Another officer wrote: "If I was single I would happily chloroform you."

In further exchange an officer wrote: "My dad kidnapped some African children and used them to make dog food."

Many messages shared, made references to domestic violence including one which read: "And my bird won't stop taking the p***. Swear to got [sic] I'm going to smack her."

When challenged many of the officers dismissed the exchanges as "laddish banter " but the IOPC said it was deeply worrying.

Of the 14 officers investigated, two were dismissed for gross misconduct and put on the barred list, preventing future employment with the police, while another two resigned and several others faced disciplinary action, the IOPC said.

The report comes as the Met is still reeling from the fallout following the kidnap, rape and murder of Sarah Everard by serving officer, Wayne Couzens.