Professional female footballers in England are to be given increased job security when facing long-term injuries, as more details on "landmark" changes to contracts were confirmed.



On Tuesday the Professional Footballers' Association unveiled contractual improvements for the top two tiers of women's football, that have been agreed with the Football Association, after it emerged last week in a parliament debate that maternity cover was to be included for the first time, as well as new illness cover provisions.

Telegraph Sport revealed in March 2020 that maternity provisions were not included in existing Women's Super League and Championship contracts, so the news marked a significant moment in the professionalisation of women's football, and is one of a number of new conditions players will benefit from.

The players' union also confirmed that a comprehensive family leave policy has also been agreed and long-term injury cover will be significantly improved, to bring it closer in line with the conditions male players at the same level enjoy.



"Take two England internationals who play for the same club - one in the Premier League, one in the WSL," PFA director of women's football, Marie-Christine Bouchier, said. "If both those players suffer the same serious injury on the same day, under the existing WSL contract, a player can be dismissed by their club if a medic thinks their injury will prevent them from playing for three consecutive months. In that instance, the player only has the right to a three-month notice of termination.



"However, for the Premier League player, the injury would need to keep them out for 18 months in any consecutive 20-month period before their contract could be terminated. In that situation they would have the right to a 12-month notice of termination. Those are wildly different conditions for players who could suffer from the same injury playing for the same club. It clearly wasn't right."



Bouchier said it was "vital" all changes agreed be adopted by clubs for all players retrospectively, to ensure there was no "two-tier system" dependent on when players signed their contracts.



Talks between the players' union and the FA "remain ongoing", with a number of objectives still on the table, including making Women's Championship players eligible for PFA membership and the creation of a women's football negotiating committee, which would include player representatives from across the pyramid.



Those aims took on more urgent importance in recent weeks, when Championship side Coventry United only narrowly escaped liquidation after players were informed days before Christmas that their contracts were being terminated.

There has also been wide debate around FA Cup prize money, which the FA last week pledged to "significantly increase" but remains a fraction of the men's prize pot. At present a number of National League sides lose money to compete, because the prize money in early rounds does not cover their costs.



PFA chief executive Maheta Molango said achieving "absolute parity in working conditions and protections between male and female players in English football" was the ambition of the union.