The 2020 explosions at an iron ore site, which buried a record of life dating back more than 40,000 years, prompted demands for sweeping changes and the exit of top executives, including Mr Stausholm’s predecessor.

The external review, initiated last year after a spate of reports over misconduct at remote mine sites in Western Australia, will also undermine the industry’s often loudly proclaimed ambitions to achieve better gender balance in historically male-dominated workforces.

Rio said it would implement all 26 recommendations contained in the findings of a team led by the former Australian sex discrimination commissioner, Elizabeth Broderick. Measures include making worker camps safer and creating an environment where people feel secure to report unacceptable behavior.

While the study covered Rio workplaces in locations including Canada, the US, Mongolia and Singapore, most attention will be focused on Australia, which is home to iron ore mines that generate the bulk of profits and where almost half of the firm’s 45,000 staff and contractors are based. About a fifth of Rio’s workforce is female, according to its most recent annual report.

Western Australia’s parliament in July announced an inquiry into sexual harassment in the state’s “fly-in-fly-out” mining industry, with public submissions from operators, unions and individuals pointing to an endemic culture of sexism. The five-member panel is due to publish its findings in April.

The industry’s remote mines can be especially risky for women. They remain largely male-dominated, with workers living in camp-style accommodation that blurs the line between work and social life. However the study also heard complaints from staff in Singapore.

Respondents to Ms Broderick’s eight-month-long review, which included an online survey, one-to-one meetings and small discussion groups, described an atmosphere where derogatory comments and physical intimidation were commonplace.

“One man said to me: ‘It’s a biological fact that women are not as good at maths as men. That’s why there aren’t as many women engineers,’” said one survey respondent. An operations manager said she had been referred to by colleagues as a “token woman” despite being highly qualified for the role.

The study also found that people working in a country different to their birth experienced high rates of racism, while nearly 40pc of men and more than 30pc of women identifying themselves as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander in Australia had been subject to racism.

The report also said bullying behaviour had become “normalised” in many workplace settings.

"Bullying is systemic, experienced by almost half of the survey respondents," the report concluded. "I've copped racism in every single corner of this company," said one respondent.

While Rio was making progress in tackling theses issues “the challenge now is to ensure that this cultural shift is replicated at all levels of the organisation”, it added.

Shares closed 2.4pc lower in Sydney but rose 1pc in morning trading in London.