Johns Hopkins University Researchers Determine COVID Lockdowns ‘Had Little to No Public Health Effects’ While Causing ‘Enormous Economic and Social Costs’

Researchers at Johns Hopkins University have determined that COVID-19 lockdown policies “have had little to no public health effects while” imposing “enormous economic and social costs” on the public.

They found in their research released in the Jan. 2022 edition of Studies in Applied Economics that lockdowns during the initial weeks and months of the pandemic only reduced COVID mortality by a mere 0.2 percent. They analyzed many different scientific studies to come to their conclusion.

“We find no evidence that lockdowns, school closures, border closures, and limiting gatherings have had a noticeable effect on COVID-19 mortality,” wrote researchers Jonas Herby, Lars Jonung and Steve H. Hanke, who authored the study.

They also found that the lockdowns had “devastating effects” on the economic and social well-being of the public as the masses fell hard to the mass hysteria propaganda.

“They have contributed to reducing economic activity, raising unemployment, reducing schooling, causing political unrest, contributing to domestic violence, and undermining liberal democracy,” the report stated.

“Such a standard benefit-cost calculation leads to a strong conclusion: lockdowns should be rejected out of hand as a pandemic policy instrument,” the researchers concluded.

Big League Politics has reported on how deaths of despair are surpassing COVID-19 deaths as hopelessness rises amidst the never-ending pandemic:

“Shocking data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has shown that more U.S. adults between the ages of 18 and 45 died of fentanyl overdoses since 2020 than COVID-19, automobile accidents, suicide and cancer combined.

There were 37,208 overdose deaths in 2020 and 41,587 overdose deaths in 2021. Comparatively, there were over 53,000 COVID deaths throughout the same period.

“This is a national emergency. America’s young adults — thousands of unsuspecting Americans — are being poisoned,” said James Rauh, who founded Families Against Fentanyl, in a press release. “It is widely known that illicit fentanyl is driving the massive spike in drug-related deaths. A new approach to this catastrophe is needed.”

Rauh, whose son died of a drug overdose, believes that “declaring illicit fentanyl a Weapon of Mass Destruction would activate additional and necessary federal resources to root out the international manufacturers and traffickers of illicit fentanyl and save American lives.”

The Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) has warned of counterfeit pills being sold over social media platforms that contain fentanyl.

“Fentanyl has been found in all the drug supply. That’s why anyone using drugs, not just opioids, should carry naloxone,” said Dr. Roneet Lev, former chief medical officer of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). “The only safe place to obtain drugs is the pharmacy.”

… These drugs are being pushed on young people to weaken America on the painful road to technocracy and the new world order.“

The academic establishment is confirming what every so-called conspiracy theorist knew from the start: The lockdown measures were never about protecting public safety. They were about creating a one-world technocratic government where civil liberties are a notion of the past.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.