Mr Johnson came under attack from all sides during his bruising Commons appearance, which included what Tim Stanley described as a "wickedly effective speech" from Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer.

Attempts to shore up party unity were also cracking as Downing Street suffered its first resignation from government over the saga, with the departure of Angela Richardson as a parliamentary private secretary to Michael Gove.

But could Mr Johnson actually come out of this stronger? Charles Moore says he got a reprieve - thanks to his enemies.

Call with Putin delayed as Macron gets in first

Vladimir Putin discussed the Ukraine crisis with Emmanuel Macron instead of Boris Johnson after a call with the Prime Minister was delayed because of the Sue Gray report. A Downing Street source confirmed that the call due to have taken place between the Russian president and the Prime Minister had been "postponed", but was unable to confirm when it would be rescheduled. Defence Correspondent Danielle Sheridan reports how Mr Macron seized the diplomatic initiative. In further disruption to Mr Johnson's plans, Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, last night tested positive for Covid - hours after sitting on a packed frontbench in the Commons. She had been due to travel to Ukraine with Mr Johnson today in a show of support for Volodymyr Zelensky, the country's president. Earlier, Ms Truss vowed that Putin's wealthy cronies would have "nowhere left to hide" if Russia invaded Ukraine.

Sending a letter in the post can seem a plodding, outdated means of communication. But the humble stamp, as we know it, is to be phased out and replaced with a version designed to bring the process into the digital age. Barcodes are to be attached to regular first and second class stamps, that will allow recipients to watch videos and eventually access messages and even choose their own greetings. Victoria Ward explains the biggest shake-up to the way post is handled in almost 200 years.

View Matt's latest cartoon as he finds the funny side of the Sue Gray 'partygate' report.

Also in the news: Today's other headlines

Nervous borrowers | Britain's biggest bank has launched the cheapest 10-year mortgage on record, as borrowers flock to long-term deals to shield themselves from interest rate rises. Homeowners have turned to longer fixed rates in a bid to control their monthly outgoings amid the current cost of living crisis. Lloyds Bank has launched a decade-long loan with an interest rate of 1.66pc. Rachel Mortimer lists the other banks that have also reduced rates on decade-long loans.
• 'Not about race' | Whoopi Goldberg apologises for Holocaust remarks
• 'Not now, Stacey' | Banker belittled with jibes awarded £2m payout

Around the world: Ex-Miss USA takes own life

A former Miss USA, who feared that turning 30 meant "running out of time to matter" in the public arena, has been found dead after jumping from a New York building. Cheslie Kryst, an activist lawyer, who won the beauty pageant in 2019, was found near her Manhattan apartment. Her family spoke of their "devastation and great sorrow". Rozina Sabur reports on how she opened up about social media abuse and the pressure she felt to achieve early success just months before her death.