All eyes are currently on Sue Gray, as her initial findings into "partygate" have just been dropped on Monday 31 January. But who exactly is the civil servant who was tasked with the investigation?

In the 1980s, Ms Gray briefly paused her stellar civil service career to buy a pub in “bandit country” in Northern Ireland during The Troubles. If Boris Johnson needed evidence that his inquisitor-in-chief is no pushover, then being landlady of a pub in Newry close to the Irish border shows she is no soft touch.

Ms Gray had the task of investigating a series of alleged lockdown parties held in Downing Street and across government during the Covid-19 pandemic. The report has now been completed, with the initial findings that there were "failings of leadership and judgement".

The report, which was published on gov.uk, consists of 12 pages and reveals that 12 gatherings are subject to Metropolitan Police investigation.

The Prime Minister had been questioned by Ms Gray over the "Partygate" allegations he and other MPs face and The Telegraph understands that he shared all he knows with the civil servant.

Dominic Cummings was also interviewed by Ms Gray as part of her investigation. Mr Johnson's former top aide, who has been critical of the Prime Minister since leaving No10, has previously claimed on his blog that he and other witnesses were prepared to swear under oath that Mr Johnson had "lied to Parliament about parties".

However, Mr Cummings refused to meet Ms Gray in person as he feared Boris Johnson would "spin it to the media" and instead emailed his responses.

Ahead of the report being published, Downing Street was already planning its response - with a promise to clean up the culture of drinking and rule-breaking it seems to have adopted, as well as the potential sacking of senior members.

Ominously for the Prime Minister, an MP once described her as “deputy god”, while Sir Oliver Letwin admitted when in Cabinet that it had taken him “precisely two years before I realised who it is that runs Britain", adding: "Our great United Kingdom is actually entirely run by a lady called Sue Gray. Nothing moves in Whitehall unless Sue says so.”

She does not suffer fools. For six years, she was director-general, propriety and ethics, in the Cabinet Office.

She ran inquiries into “plebgate” - in which Andrew Mitchell, the former chief whip, was accused of calling a police officer a “pleb” - and into allegations that Damian Green had used his parliamentary computer to access pornography. Mr Green, then deputy prime minister, was forced to resign.

Now aged 63, Ms Gray has held senior civil service posts under a number of prime ministers, both Labour and Conservative, and has pulled off the trick of keeping politicians in the dark about her own political leanings.

She remains on friendly terms with Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair’s former director of communications and strategy, and the pair remain in touch.

“She is a very, very strong woman,” Mr Campbell said on January 11. “She really cares about what goes on in Government. I would not have a clue about her politics … but she is somebody whose judgement I have valued.”

In one volume of Mr Campbell’s diary, he references a number of meetings with her after leaving Downing Street - not least because one of Ms Gray’s chief roles was to vet political memoirs, to ensure no state secrets were given away or civil servants unfairly maligned.