Gatland recalls attending Warburton's disciplinary hearing the day after the match, walking past supporters in Auckland. "A couple of restaurants stopped and cheered us, gave us a standing ovation. I thought it was a reflection of how unlucky we were, but also how we’d performed in the tournament."

The squad, after losing the third place play-off to Australia, made the most of the bar at the back of Emirates business class during their flight home, Jamie Roberts recalls. "We drank the flight away really, and deservedly so. Everyone had a good swig reminiscing about the good times and wondering what might have been."

"You were just trying to enjoy each other’s company because it was the last time we were going to see each other for a bit," adds Adam Jones, the prop. "When you look back on it a bit further down the line, you think oh s---, that was a good chance."

Yet the agony of that near miss was not entirely wasted. Wales had just four months to wait for the next Six Nations, and when they reassembled for their traditional freezing, ferocious training camp in Poland, there was a determination to not experience that pain again.

Being fitter than every other side, or at least believing they were, became a core part of Wales' success.

"One of the great things about the Welsh boys when they’ve come into camp is they really do put the effort in and train hard. And we pushed them," Gatland admits. "We had this mantra that no one was working harder than us. We felt we had three or four players who we could consider world class, guys who were accurate, in good shape physically and worked their butts off."

One highlight (apparently) from the camp for Roberts was a "f---ing freezing" fitness session on the beach with his centre partner Jon Davies, under the watchful eye of Rob Howley.

"Rob was chuckling away to himself. It was by the Baltic Sea and he offered for us to jump in there for some recovery - no chance. He beasted us. It was so cold the sand was frozen. We were doing army crawls, wrestling on frozen sand - it’s laughable now. It set us up well for what was to come."