Fly-half rivals Johnny Sexton and Dan Biggar - 2017 British & Irish Lions colleagues in New Zealand - are set for the latest of their many career battles when Ireland and Wales kick off this season's Guinness Six Nations on Saturday.

Between them, they have won 196 caps for their countries and amassed almost 1,500 points, and their influence shows no sign of waning. The big question is: who will come out on top?

What is it?

The opening match of the 2022 Six Nations as Ireland host reigning champions Wales in Dublin.

When is it?

What TV channel is it on?

Who is the referee?

What is the latest squad news?

Head coach Andy Farrell has named uncapped duo Mack Hansen and Michael Lowry in his 37-man squad.

Connacht wing Hansen has been in red-hot form in the United Rugby Championship, while versatile back Lowry has impressed for Ulster.

Munster fly-half Joey Carbery has been included, despite recently being sidelined by a fractured elbow, but Leinster wing James Lowe has been left out due to a muscular injury.

Meanwhile, Ulster lock Kieran Treadwell, who won three Test caps in 2017, has been recalled.

Farrell has mainly kept faith with the players used in the autumn when the Irish stretched their winning run to eight games by beating Japan and Argentina, either side of a statement success over New Zealand.

In addition to the enforced absence of New Zealand-born Lowe, Leinster duo Harry Byrne and Ciaran Frawley, Munster wing Simon Zebo and Ulster centre Stuart McCloskey have been dropped.

Second-rower Ultan Dillane has also been overlooked having decided to leave Connacht for an unnamed overseas club at the end of the season.

Veteran fly-half Johnny Sexton will captain his country for the third successive championship after overcoming ankle and knee issues suffered in November.

With deputy Carbery deemed fit to be included, Connacht's Jack Carty - who has not featured since the 2019 World Cup - has been selected as the other 10, ahead of Byrne.

Irish preparations for the tournament have been hampered by a number of players having seen limited recent game time due to a series postponements at domestic level.

Vice-captain James Ryan and Leinster team-mates Tadhg Furlong and Jordan Larmour have shrugged off minor injury concerns to be included, in addition to Ulster skipper Iain Henderson, who has not played since November.

Ryan Baird, Craig Casey, Robert Baloucoune, Gavin Coombes, James Hume, Tom O'Toole, Nick Timoney and Dan Sheehan - who were among the 12 new caps in 2021 - have once again made the cut.

Ulster wing Jacob Stockdale misses out after undergoing surgery on an ankle injury he sustained in September.

Head coach Wayne Pivac does not expect star flanker Justin Tipuric to play any part in this season's Six Nations Championship.

Tipuric, who has won 85 caps, suffered a shoulder injury during the British and Irish Lions' pre-South Africa tour game against Japan at Murrayfield last summer.

And while it has not been dismissed that the likes of his fellow injured Lions George North, Taulupe Faletau and Dan Lydiate could be available for the tournament's latter stages, Tipuric remains sidelined.

Alun Wyn Jones, the most-capped player in international rugby union history, Ken Owens, Leigh Halfpenny and Josh Navidi are also Six Nations non-starters.

Pivac's 36-man Six Nations squad includes three uncapped players in hooker Dewi Lake, his Ospreys colleague - flanker Jac Morgan - and Cardiff No 8 James Ratti.

And there are potential Six Nations bows for the likes of Exeter forward Christ Tshiunza and Ulster hooker Bradley Roberts as Wales build towards a title defence that begins against Ireland in Dublin on February 5.

What happened in this fixture in 2021?

Wales took advantage of Peter O'Mahony's 14th-minute red card to beat Ireland last year.

Flanker O'Mahony became the first Irishman to be sent off in the Six Nations following an elbow to the head of prop Tomas Francis.

Ireland bounced back to lead 13-6 at half-time through a Tadhg Beirne try and Johnny Sexton's boot. Tries from George North and Louis Rees-Zammit, and 11 points from Leigh Halfpenny, sealed success for Wales, though.

However, they nearly lost it at the death, with a penalty giving Billy Burns the chance to kick for the corner and a potential match-winning lineout drive, only for the replacement Ireland No 10 to kick the ball dead.

What are they saying?

Referees talk too much and are too chummy with the players - it has to stop

One other area that needs to be addressed, and it is not a major issue yet but has been creeping in over recent months, is the amount referees talk to players. It comes up with the Welsh referees who I coach, who I am trying to get out of the habit. I see them talking almost too much with players, who talk them out of decisions. There is a time for communication and there needs to be a balance. But the more you talk in a game, the more you open yourself up to have a two-way conversation, and players feel they can talk to you about anything.

To read the full article, click here