Savers must act fast to secure the best interest rates as banks have started to pull top deals just days after launch.

Several of the best-paying easy-access savings accounts, bonds and Isas have been withdrawn this year, according to analysts Moneyfacts.

Two best buys introduced last month – Family Building Society's Premium Saver and Scottish Building Society's Cash Isa – were both pulled within a fortnight, surviving just five days and 10 days respectively.

Customers seeking variable-rate deals, including easy-access accounts, have been hit the hardest by withdrawals, Moneyfacts said.

Skipton Building Society, which had increased the rate on its cash Isa tracker last month to a market-leading 0.6pc, withdrew it last week. Paragon Bank also closed its 0.65pc "triple access" account to new customers last week.

Meanwhile Charter Savings Bank’s 0.91pc one-year cash Isa rate was reduced to 0.85pc last month, before being withdrawn last week.

Rachel Springall of Moneyfacts said: “As we have seen before, the savings market can be particularly volatile when it comes down to interest rates offered at the top end of the market.

"The shelf life of a top deal may not last long and savers may find deals disappear before they get a chance to apply.

"Challenger banks and building societies continue to offer some of the best returns in the market, but it appears to be quite a challenge for them to sustain those deals in the spotlight."

This comes just weeks after the Bank of England increased its Bank Rate to 0.25pc. While high street banks have been quick to pass on the rate rise to mortgage borrowers, they have been slower to give savers the benefit.

One-year bonds have risen by just 0.01 percentage points so far this year, while two-year bonds climbed by 0.05 percentage points and five-year bonds by 0.03 percentage points.

Easy-access rates did not move at all last month, Moneyfacts reported, with the average rate remaining at 0.2pc. Easy-access cash Isa rates actually fell, from 0.27pc to 0.25pc.

Ms Springall added: "Many savers may be expecting to see the Bank Rate rise passed onto them, but sadly this hasn’t been the case over a month later for many and, as we have seen in the past, it may not even happen at all."