Just three in 10 board seats are held by women in the UK, lagging behind countries including France and Italy.

The proportion of board seats is notably higher than the UK level of 30.1pc in France (43.2pc), Norway (42.4pc) and Italy (36.6pc), according to a global report by Deloitte.

Although the UK improved its global standing for gender diversity, moving from 13th to 9th place since the report was last published in 2019, it fell behind six European countries as well as New Zealand and South Africa.

Jackie Henry, a managing partner at Deloitte UK, said: “While the number of board seats held by those identifying as women in the UK is moving in the right direction, we’re still a long way behind our European neighbours with leaders France only 6.8pc short of gender parity.

“UK businesses need to be even more proactive in taking diversity targets seriously, improving disclosure and more transparent reporting.”

In 2010, FTSE 100 boards were made up of just 12pc of women, but this has now grown to 36.2pc.

There are, however, only 15 women board chairs in the FTSE 100 and eight chief executives, an increase of just one since 2019.

The report also found the average tenure for women on boards in the UK decreased from 4.1 years to 3.6 years since the last report published in 2019.

The paper, published alongside campaigning group the 30pc Club, said slow progress was being made towards achieving greater gender parity.

Globally just one in five (19.7pc) boardroom seats were held by women, a 2.8pc increase since 2019.

The report identified what it called the “stretch factor”, whereby a smaller group of women are taking on a large number of board seats.

Ann Cairns, global chair of the 30pc Club, said: “This speaks to the fact that women have a harder time being appointed if they don’t have previous board experience.

“Chairs and chief executives should be encouraged to give women their first board seat. There is plenty of talent out there who would make great directors.”