Hard-pressed households will come under more pressure this year as a toxic cocktail of inflation, tax hikes and high energy prices take their toll on finances.

Wages have failed to keep pace with spiralling costs, and workers will need a pay rise of at least 8.7pc just to keep up. Meanwhile, wage growth slowed to just 4.2pc towards the end of 2021, resulting in the third real pay squeeze in a decade.

Telegraph Money has done the maths to find out the extra cost increases you can expect to face this year. Of course, these are just averages and based on typical cases; the real price rises could be much higher.

If the Bank Rate increases further this year, as is forecast, this would hit the millions of households on a standard variable rate, tracker deal or who are nearing the end of a fixed-rate loan.

Lenders are usually quick to pass on the costs of borrowing when the Bank of England raises the Bank Rate, and many have already pushed up the cost of fixed deals since December's rate rise.

Financial markets and economists are now predicting more rate rises this year, with rates potentially rising to 1pc, their highest since 2009, as early as August.

The average outstanding fixed rate mortgage debt is £159,000, according to UK Finance, the banking trade body. If the average two-year fixed rate increases by one percentage point this year, this would take monthly repayments up from £833 to £912. Over a year, this would cost the homeowner an extra £948.

Petrol and diesel prices are back on the rise and closing in on record levels, despite retailers paying lower wholesale costs. The average price of petrol has increased to 146.53p a litre, close to November's record high of 147.72p, according to figures from the RAC and the AA.

The average motorist, driving 7,400 miles per year in the average car achieving 52.6 miles to the gallon, would pay £182 more this year as a result of higher fuel prices compared to last year.

The energy crisis has been raging for months, but so far most homes have been somewhat protected by the energy price cap. It is expected to rise twice this year, with the first increase coming into force from April.

Industry analysts predicted the price cap will climb to £1,897 for average users, up from its current level of £1,277 – a 48pc increase, representing an extra £620 in yearly bills for the average household. The price cap is expected to rise further towards the end of the year, potentially making the real increase even higher.