Pronoun badges have been introduced at the British Library on the advice of Stonewall, despite fears the move could appear “too woke”

Labels displaying “he/him”, “she/her” or “they/them” have been rolled out for staff, with internal documents stating that making assumptions about gender can send a “harmful” message “even if correct”.

The pronoun badges were brought in on the recommendation of the under-fire LGBT charity Stonewall, documents reveal, despite a British Library risk assessment anticipating the move might be seen as “too woke” by the public and its own staff.

The assessment for the rollout of the voluntary badges stated that it could be perceived as “political” and that the £1,300 cost of the scheme could lead people to question “why is the BL (British Library) spending money on this in times of financial difficulties?”

An internal email laying out the scheme states that the “aim of these badges is to encourage discussion and understanding of gender identity and the range of identities that people have”.

They state: “Often people make assumptions about the gender of another person based on the person’s appearance or name.

“These assumptions aren’t always correct and the act of making an assumption (even if correct) sends a potentially harmful message - that people have to look a certain way to demonstrate the gender they are not.”

Documents state that the scheme was recommended by an outside transgender awareness consultant and Stonewall, which last year suffered a string of high-profile departures from its Diversity Champions Scheme amid controversy over the charity’s support of gender self-identification. The British Library is still part of the scheme.

The library’s badges were introduced in September, with provisional budgets estimating a cost of £676 for the 400 badges themselves, £450 in “trans awareness training”, and £250 for the services of the same transgender awareness consultant who recommended the scheme. This may not have been the final budget.

Badges are voluntary, and predicted responses from employees were factored into a risk assessment for the scheme, including the possibility that “staff members don't understand why we are introducing these badges”.

It was stated in plans to mitigate risks that an internal communications plan would address this and “explain the clear need and benefits of pronoun badges”.

In regard to the possibility employees could refuse to call people by their preferred pronouns, it was stated that “the review of HR policies will reflect how staff members should respect their colleagues chosen, stated pronouns”.

An internal message titled “Introducing Pronoun Badges” outlined the purpose of the scheme last year, stating: “By wearing a pronoun badge, even if your pronouns are rarely if ever used incorrectly, you are sending a message to colleagues, visitors and readers that you recognise the validity of pronouns other than what is immediately obvious.”

It added that part of the aim was to “continue to make a more inclusive environment for trans and non-binary collgeaues and visitors at the British Library”.

The rollout of pronoun badges follows criticism of the British Library, which receives more than £92 million in funding from the Government, in relation to its response to Black Lives Matter protests in 2020.

These included the declaration of a racial “state of emergency” by some staff at the institution, and the promise from chief librarian Liz Jolly that there would be “major cultural change” at the organisation.

MPs suggested at the time that funding could be cut in light of "divisive" internal activism.



Plans for explaining the new badge scheme to staff stressed a measured approach, stating: “The tone of the communication will be focusing on allyship and encouraging staff to participate while highlighting that this will not be compulsory and colleagues should not feel stigmatised if they decide not to wear one.”



The British Librarian has been contacted for comment. It is understood that badges are currently available and used by staff who wish to wear them in public facing and other roles.