About 800,000 new Covid cases were added to England's official tally on Monday night as the UK Health Security Agency rolled out a major update to its Covid dashboard.

In addition to the 81,000 new cases on Monday, another 588,000 reinfections were added to England's case tally, as well as another 173,000 cases which had been erroneously removed because they were thought to be duplicates.

Around half of the newly added cases occurred since the start of December, and are attributable to the omicron variant's ability to reinfect people. It takes England's official number of cases to 14.85 million, and the UK's to 17.3 million.

The seismic data dump is the result of health officials overhauling how they collect and publish the daily Covid stats. For example, if an individual tested positive for Covid but had already returned a previous positive test in the past, they would not be included in the daily toll. Now, reinfections will be counted.

Before omicron, 1.4 per cent of cases were reinfections and therefore missed from the count, but the risk of reinfection is 16 times higher with the new variant, according to the Office for National Statistics.

UKHSA says the omicron wave saw the number of reinfections jump to 10 per cent. A reinfection is now defined as when a single individual returns two positive tests more than 90 days apart.

Since Dec 1, there have been 5.6 million cases of Covid, and just 8,854 deaths, a case fatality rate of 0.16 per cent.

As part of the update, 61 categories were retrospectively amended with data back to March 2020. The new figures show more than 272,000 cases were recorded on Jan 4, 2022, the highest daily figure since the pandemic began.

The rejigged dashboard also shows that Jan 4 saw almost 25,000 reinfections in England, the highest daily tally for this new metric. But as cases have dwindled following the omicron peak, there are now around 5,000 reinfections a day.

Reinfections have only been added for England, and not the other devolved administrations.

Professor Steven Riley, UKHSA’s Director General of Data & Analytics, said: "Reinfection remained at very low levels until the start of the omicron wave. It is right that our daily reporting processes reflect how the virus has changed.

“We continue to see downward trends in case numbers and incidence of illness as we work to reduce the impact of the pandemic on our day-to-day lives. With vaccination still a great defence against infection and illness, please get jabbed as soon as possible.”