NASHVILLE, Tenn. (WVLT) – Officials were reportedly warned Anthony Warner was making bombs in his RV more than a year before the Christmas morning bombing in downtown Nashville, according to a report.

WTVF reported the tip came from Warner’s distraught girlfriend in August 2019.

According to the Metro Nashville Police report, on August 21, 2019 officers were dispatched to the 100 block of Bakertown Road on reports of a woman trying to kill herself.

According to the report, an attorney who was also there and represented both the woman and Warner – told police that Warner “frequently talks about the military and bomb making.”

The attorney stated he believes “Warner knows what he is doing and is capable of making a bomb.”

It states “Police observed that there was an RV trailer in the backyard but the yard was fenced off and police could not see inside the RV.”

Police noted there were several security cameras wired to an alarm sign on the door.

Upon arrival, officers were in contact with Warner’s girlfriend who made a statement to police that “Warner was building bombs in the RV trailer at his residence.”

They spy on all of us to “catch the terrorists” but they seem to be involved with the ones that make the headlines.

Need more examples of the FBI intentionally looking the other way when terrorists are involved? I’ll put them here as I find them.

Documents obtained from the FBI on al-Fuqra by national security analyst Ryan Mauro, through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request and first made public in this week’s episode of “For the Record,” show that at the same time that FBI special agents were picnicking and hosting award ceremonies with members of the group at their Hancock, N.Y. headquarters, internally the FBI continued to acknowledge that the group remained an active terrorist threat.

There are over 22 confirmed terrorist Jihad camps in the United States belonging to Jamaat ul-Fuqra, a Pakastan Muslim Brotherhood and Al Qaeda related branch. Now a combined media effort, we find police officers working to double as the compound militia. To top it off, the FBI states that their hands are tied in monitoring their activities despite a training video that is years old, possible murders, and proof of illegal activities.

They decided to take pages from the site to the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, where an investigator told them that Harris already had a criminal file. “I was utterly dumbfounded that they did nothing with the Web pages,” says Brooks Brown. “Eric was saying how he was gonna blow people up. ‘Hey, I’m making pipe bombs. I’e got the designs for them on my Web site. I’m gonna kill these people.” At first, the sheriff’s department denied its investigators had even met with the Browns in person. But we obtained this police paperwork, showing those investigators not only “met with Mrs. Judy Brown,” but then worked on a warrant to search Eric Harris’ home. Even more surprising, one document shows a sheriff’s deputy found “a pipe bomb… consistent with the devices” Harris described on his site. But the sheriff’s department never searched – or even visited-the Harris home. It was April of ’98 – a full year before the Columbine massacre.