The U.S. Attorney’s office for the Western District of Tennessee announced recently that Revosea Richardson was sentenced to 17 years in federal prison for the intent to distribute over 500 grams of methamphetamine. Richardson, who is a Selmer, Tennessee resident, was also found guilty of “conspiring with others to distribute” and being in possession of a firearm as a felon.

According to information presented in court, Richardson was taken into custody when he admitted to an officer during a traffic stop that he had outstanding warrants.

The DOJ press release said the officer said the car smelled of marijuana, and a vehicle search was conducted. While searching the vehicle, officers found a 9 millimeter gun in Richardson’s backpack, and “a white crystallized substance, which was later confirmed by DEA laboratory to be 20 grams of actual methamphetamine/ICE, a bag containing around four grams of marijuana, and one Alprazolam pill.”

Richardson’s previous convictions included “possessing over .5 grams of methamphetamine with the intent to sell, possessing over .5 ounces of marijuana with the intent to deliver, and unlawful possession of a firearm.” Due to these convictions, Richardson was prohibited from possessing firearms during the time of the traffic stop.

Later, during an interview with law enforcement, Richardson admitted “to buying and selling methamphetamine for the past 3 to 4 years, and he provided specific amounts of methamphetamine he purchased for resale during that time.” He was held accountable for “20 grams of actual methamphetamine/ICE and approximately 1.4 kilograms of a mixture and substance containing a detectable amount of methamphetamine.”

After Richardson serves his 17-year imprisonment, he will be subject to five years of supervised release. No parole exists in the federal system.

The Tennessee Star previously reported on similar cases where convicted felons became in possession of firearms, including in October of 2021 when a Nashville man was arrested for the third time illegally possessing a gun. Davian M. Greenlee stole a gun during a burglary, and is facing life in prison. His sentencing date is February 14.

Morgan Nicole Veysey is a reporter for The Tennessee Star and The Star News Network. Follow her on Twitter. Email tips to [email protected]

 Photo “crystal meth” by Radspunk CC BY-SA 4.0.