Princess Elizabeth was on the first stop of a Commonwealth tour with Prince Philip in Kenya when the news broke that King George VI had died on 6 February 1952.

The couple had been set to travel on to Australia and New Zealand, but the tour was cancelled and Her Majesty returned to the UK “without delay”, according to parliamentary records.

Following a meeting of the Accession Council, whose members include privy councillors, great officers of state, the lord mayor and some senior civil servants, she officially took up the title of head of state. A principle proclamation was read at St James’s Palace two days later, as is custom.

This year will mark the 70th anniversary of the Queen acceding to the throne. Photo opportunities may be limited, however. The monarch is “rarely seen in public on the anniversary of her accession”, preferring to “spend the day privately” in memory of her late father, said Hello! magazine’s royal correspondent Danielle Stacey.

Her majesty typically chooses to mark the day at the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, where King George VI died. This year may be more poignant than others, as it will be the first that the Queen will spend without her husband at her side.

Breaking with tradition, she will not reside in the main house, but will instead spend several weeks at Wood Farm, a cottage that belonged to Prince Philip and was favoured by him during his retirement.

Special prayers are traditionally read on Accession Day, with churches holding evensong services in celebration of the reigning sovereign. This year, 6 February also marks the start of the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee celebrations.

“There isn’t really a template for celebrating a British monarch’s 70-year reign, because it’s not happened before,” said BBC royal correspondent Sean Coughlan. He said that 6 February is, however, likely to be a more subdued affair than the public celebrations to follow in the summer.

Royal author Robert Jobson told the Mirror that the Queen would be unlikely to give a speech on 6 February, and will instead spend the day in “quiet, sombre reflection”. Later in the year, the public will get to enjoy festivities in commemoration of the Queen’s historic reign.

As well as a pudding competition and a new city being named, members of the public will have the opportunity to see some of the Queen’s royal wares. Three exhibits will go on display at Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle and the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh in July, featuring portraits, jewellery and outfits worn by the Queen at her coronation in 1952, as well as subsequent jubilee celebrations.