Experts have been warning of something called the “quantum apocalypse” – the point when quantum computers become a reality and render most methods of internet encryption useless.

Boris Johnson promised in November that the UK would “go big” on quantum computing – a new and more powerful way of processing information, based on quantum physics. If you imagine a standard computer to be like a horse and cart, then a quantum computer is “more like a sports car – a huge leap forward”, explained the BBC.

The UK is aiming to secure 50% of the global quantum computing market by 2040, said The Guardian, by investing in the National Quantum Computing Centre in Harwell, Oxfordshire. But the US and China have already taken huge steps to revolutionise research in the field, with the Americans achieving a “dramatic lead in quantum computing patents”, said Scientific American.

A leaked Google research paper published in 2019 suggested that a computer designed by the tech giant had achieved “quantum supremacy” – defined by The Independent as the ability to perform “a calculation that was far beyond the reach of today’s most powerful supercomputers”.

The paper said that Google’s 72-qubit computer took just 200 seconds to perform a calculation that would have taken a supercomputer around 10,000 years to complete.

There is hope that the sophistication of quantum computers could enable scientists to design new chemicals, paving the way for advanced medicines and materials. It could also help weather forecasts and stock trades, and even combat global heating.

Quantum computing “gives us a way to model nature better”, said Jay Gambetta, a vice-president of quantum computing at IBM, which boasts the world’s most powerful quantum processor.

However, there is also what the BBC has described as a “dark side” to quantum computing. Current computers would take years, decades and even centuries to crack the encryption codes created by today’s machines, but the fact that a quantum computer could theoretically do this in “just seconds” poses an enormous cybersecurity risk.

The notion of all the world’s most encrypted files – from WhatsApp messages to online banking to government data – suddenly being broken into thanks to the advent of quantum computing is known as the “quantum apocalypse”.