STOCKTON, Calif. – A veteran California firefighter was fatally shot Monday when he and others responded to a report of a dumpster fire, officials said.

Stockton Fire Department Capt. Vidal "Max" Fortuna, a firefighter for more than two decades, was shot before dawn in Stockton and died at a hospital, Stockton Fire Chief Rick Edwards told reporters.

"This is my worst nightmare as a fire chief," Edwards said. "My message to my firefighters is to be strong, my heart breaks with you, but we will get through this."

Fortuna, 47, is survived by a wife and two grown children.

A 67-year-old man was detained at the scene and officers recovered a firearm, said interim Police Chief Jim Chraska. Homicide detectives are trying to determine what led up to the shooting, he said.

“This highlights the dangers public safety faces every day, and again, our thoughts and prayers go out to the Fortuna family,” Stockton interim Police Chief Jim Chraska said.

As news swirled of the shooting during the morning, Edwards, City Manager Harry Black, Mayor Kevin Lincoln and Firefighters 456 Union President Mario Gardea led a hastily called news conference to talk about the fallen city servant.

“Today’s a good representation of the type of person that Max was," Gardea said. "Max was a firefighter who showed up every day and never complained about being on the job. Don’t really know too many firefighters who enjoyed the job as much as him.”

Although Stockton firefighters have died fighting fires, officials said it was likely the first time one was shot while on duty.

"This is something that I've never heard of here in the city of Stockton, firefighter being shot and killed,” Officer Joe Silva, a Stockton police spokesman said. "Everybody loved Max. He showed up to work every day and was well respected."

"His leadership, his commitment to our city is reflected here by his brothers, sisters, his community showing relentless support. This a difficult season and moment for the city of Stockton and our Stockton firefighters. But the pain that we feel as a community, does not compare to the pain that the Fortuna family is experiencing right now.”

Dozens of police and fire department vehicles accompanied Fortuna’s body from the hospital to a funeral home. The flag at Stockton City Hall was lowered to half-staff in honor of Fortuna.