Much had been made about his shooting slump, and his average this month entering Monday's game had fallen more than six points from the 27.6 points he averaged in December. All the talk didn't bother the superstar, because he said nobody is harder on him than he is on himself.

“It’s the gift and the curse of the bar that you’ve set," he said. “You get all the praise when things are going well and obviously it’s something to talk about when I don’t meet that level.

“It’s not so much the commentary, because when I walk off the court I’m the first one to judge the way that I played," he continued. “And I understand when I don’t meet that level and try to deal with the frustration when that happens over a consistent period of time."

The Warriors were clinging to a four-point lead in the fourth when Curry scored the next five points to make it 113-104 with four minutes left. He made a basket in the lane before hitting a 3 from the corner to allow Golden State to pull away.

“We’ve seen Steph do that a million times," coach Steve Kerr said. “It was bound to happen even though it’s been a couple of weeks or whatever. Not surprising but fun to see ... him shake free and have a game like he did."

He knew he was in a zone in the fourth quarter but said that he always feels like he's capable of getting hot like he did.

“You always feel like the next shot is going to start that vibe," he said. “It's no secret how I've been shooting the ball recently, but the confidence is always there and it only takes one to ignite a night like that."

“There’s been very, very few times I haven’t felt like we played hard and very, very few times where I felt like we haven’t had fight," he said. “Our character and our grit show up pretty much every night."

A 10-3 spurt by the Rockets, capped by a 3 from Garrison Mathews, got them within five points with about eight minutes to left in the game. Houston cut it to four on a another 3 by Mathews later in the fourth, but Curry scored five quick points to extend it to 108-99 with less than six minutes remaining.

Houston got within three in the third quarter before Curry took over. Golden State had a lead of 74-65 with about five minutes left in the period. Porter made a shot for Houston, but Golden State responded with the next 11 points. Then Houston rediscovered its offense for an 11-2 run and was down 87-78 entering the fourth.