One of the first things to disappear when we buy something is the instruction manual. For some reason, in that moment of joy of having a new object, the manufacturer’s advice does not seem important to us. This is a great way to train our intuition and be able to understand the things we find that come without any instructions...although our brain cannot always handle it all.

Instead of trying to find out what an object is meant to be used for, there are people who decide to take a shortcut and ask for help on the Internet. At Bright Side, this process of research and discovery makes us feel like kids with new toys, and that’s why we put together a list of several inquiries about strange objects found all over the globe.

1. “What is this leather thing that was in a subscription box? We can’t figure it out!”

2. “What is (the intended use of) this oddly shaped silver spoon?”

3. “An object found in the kitchen of a deceased relative, about 18 inches long. The puck-shaped end is heavy, solid metal.”

4. “This came with a bike. It’s not on the instructions or parts list. It has a diameter of about 2 inches.”

5. “Little razors attached to some sort of handle...found on top of the fridge. My husband has no idea either.”

6. “A 1950s house has these planks that pull out of the bedroom wardrobe. Any ideas what they’re for?”

7. “What is this item? All night we’ve been trying to solve this. It slides open and there is a tiny piece of fοam inside.”

8. “This 1.5-foot by about 3-foot cubby in my friend’s new bedroom”

9. “A hard, very lightweight blob without any sort of smell. Feels waxy.”

10. “A Victorian mystery object — blunt and too big for a needle threader”

11. “I noticed a tiny dirt pile, and over a few days, it has constructed itself into a perfect 5 to 6-inch delicate little dirt tower.”

12. “These thin, toothpick-like objects seem to be made of ivory and are supposedly from the 1900s from China, maybe a game?”

13. “What is this conical metal thing next to the door? Found in southern England.”

14. “An old wooden box with wooden planks with silver plates inside, anyone have an idea?”

15. “These are ceramic cylinders around 6 inches tall. They are glazed on the outside and unglazed on the inside.”

16. “A small black box with four LEDs, an aerial, and some sort of terminal”

17. “What is this ice phenomenon I found on the forest floor today?”

18. “What are these lights that appear to be behind the mirror in the hotel I’m staying at?”