Two Long Island nurses made more than $1.5 million in a fake vaccine card scheme, prosecutors say.

[ Editor’ Note: Fake cards at $220 for an adult and $80 for a kid… a nice $300 pop for the entreprenurial nurses doing some moonlighting.

Their attorney reveals he has no defence with his ploy of how much they contributed to the community as nurses. Dear Mr. lawyer, I do not think they were volunteers, but well paid with full benefits, which a lot of working people don’t have.

They did more than just sell the cards, but used their access to the Covid registration computers to log the buyers in as OK…at $80 to $220 a pop.

I wonder how many others have been doing this, but sharing the loot to make sure they were not prosecuted. Color me suspicious… Jim W. Dean ] Jim's Editor’s Notes are solely crowdfunded via PayPal

 Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving & more. Thanks for helping. Click to donate >> The nurses sold fake vaccination cards and entered false information into New York’s immunization database. Two nurses on Long Island are accused of collecting more than $1.5 million by selling forged Covid-19 vaccination cards, according to the Suffolk County district attorney’s office. The nurses, Julie DeVuono, who owns Wild Child Pediatric Healthcare in Amityville, and Marissa Urraro, her employee, sold fake vaccination cards and entered false information into New York’s immunization database, prosecutors said. They charged $220 for forged cards for adults and $85 for children, according to the district attorney’s office. Ms. DeVuono, 49, and Ms. Urraro, 44, were arraigned on Friday, each charged with one count of second-degree forgery. Ms. DeVuono was also charged with one count of offering a false instrument for filing. Michael Alber, Ms. Urraro’s lawyer, said she had entered a plea of not guilty and had been released without bail. “We look forward to highlighting the legal impediments and defects in this investigation,” Mr. Alber said. “An accusation should not overshadow the good work Ms. Urraro has done for children and adults in the medical field.”

ATTENTION READERS

 Due to the nature of independent content, VT cannot guarantee content validity.

We ask you to Read Our Content Policy so a clear comprehension of VT's independent non-censored media is understood and given its proper place in the world of news, opinion and media.



 All content is owned by author exclusively. Expressed opinions are NOT necessarily the views of VT, other authors, affiliates, advertisers, sponsors, partners or technicians. Some content may be satirical in nature. All images within are full responsibility of author and NOT VT.



 About VT - Read Full Policy Notice - Comment Policy Due to the nature of independent content, VT cannot guarantee content validity.We ask you toso a clear comprehension of VT's independent non-censored media is understood and given its proper place in the world of news, opinion and media.All content is owned by author exclusively. Expressed opinions are NOT necessarily the views of VT, other authors, affiliates, advertisers, sponsors, partners or technicians. Some content may be satirical in nature. All images within are full responsibility of author and NOT VT.