It appears that the IRS is closing in on the Biden family.

While Joe Biden’s son, Hunter, has long been associated with nefarious acts and alleged crimes, the latest reports provide new details about his shady international business ties.

There seems to be additional information connecting his actions to his high-profile dad as well as his uncle, James Biden.

Of particular interest are newly surfaced claims about the Biden family profiting from deals with communist China.

The investigation itself dates back as far as 2019, but the evidence is just now surfacing.

Leftists in D.C. and the mainstream media clearly want to keep a lid on this news — but they can’t keep it quiet forever.

Our friends over at Breitbart published an exclusive report, writing in part:

The document appears to show that as President Biden was launching his campaign that spring, federal prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney’s office in Delaware had impaneled a grand jury and were demanding the production of bank records relating to Hunter and James Biden, as well as two of their business associates, Devon Archer and Eric Schwerin. While it has been reported that subpoenas were issued in a Hunter Biden criminal probe from federal investigators, the level of detail this document contains has never been reported.

Joe Biden has his own problems as his approval rating continues to plummet.

Americans are suffering through a border crisis, rampant inflation, international turmoil, and much more because of his radical policies.

The last thing he needs now is more bad news related to his son.

Of course, Biden’s critics are seizing on the latest details in an effort to portray him as corrupt and unfit to lead.

This is hardly the first scandal to involve Hunter Biden.

A trove of damning information was found on a laptop he reportedly abandoned at a computer repair shop.

Most news outlets tried to downplay or ignore the stories, but even Biden himself acknowledged that he has no idea what kind of evidence might have been left on the device.

Making matters worse, his ex-wife Kathleen Buhle recently wrote a tell-all book in which she dished plenty of dirt about his outrageous antics while they were married.

In February 2017, Buhle alleged in a legal filing that her estranged ex had spent money on drugs, alcohol, prostitutes and strip clubs. Buhle’s book doesn’t shy away from those previous disclosures; instead, it will shine a light on the “heavy toll” addiction can take on relationships, according to the book’s publisher. NATIONAL POLL: Is CNN The Enemy Of The People? “When my marriage ended, I felt like I’d lost my sense of who I was,” Buhle tells PEOPLE. “Anyone who has seen addiction ruin a relationship, or been through infidelity and divorce, can tell you how devastating it feels. But what I also realized through those crushing experiences is that I needed to find a way to stand on my own.” “Writing this book has been incredibly healing for me,” Buhle says, “and my hope is it will be meaningful to those who have been through addiction or divorce, and especially to women who have felt like their entire identity was tied to their spouse. In the end, divorce allowed me to find my strength.”

Generally speaking, politicians should not be held accountable for the misdeeds of their adult children.

In the case of Hunter Biden, however, evidence suggests that his father was either involved in or directly benefited from some of those scandalous (if not outright illegal) actions.

If the latest news is any indication, it seems that the IRS is working to uncover even more shocking details.

Do you want to see the Biden family brought to justice?