I have spent the last few weeks intensely looking for truth in this time of mass misinformation.

I have a background in this kinda thing (social stats degree), and I have to admit, I am absolutely devastated by what I’ve found.

I have found NUMEROUS, serious medical professionals, with credentials that are simply insane, people who have dedicated their lives for this very moment, not only scrubbed from the internet but called the most disgusting, vile things.

“And if all others accepted the lie which the Party imposed—if all records told the same tale—then the lie passed into history and became truth. ‘Who controls the past’ ran the Party slogan, ‘controls the future: who controls the present controls the past.’”

There is one particular case, Dr. Roger Hodkinson which really had an impact on me because he was literally speaking to my very own city council.

Now, before these comments left his mouth, this was an extremely educated and respected man. He was literally head of some very powerful and influential medical organizations, both provincially and federally.

He has literally gone on to the private sector and is now IN the business of, you guessed it, COVID testing. What he is saying publicly is actually detrimental to his company.

And literally 5 minutes of truth, spoken in aloud in public, has nearly “scrubbed” him from reality.

Where merely 5 minutes before this man was responsible for the health of countless people. He was head of the university responsible for teaching the next generation of doctors.

Our faith in him was unquestionable. People at the highest levels of federal politics in Ottawa felt the same.

Until those five minutes of truth were spoken.

“For the first time he perceived that if you want to keep a secret you must also hide it from yourself.”

Now, if you can find him on the internet, it’s merely articles discussing his obvious lunacy. Some freelance content writer who couldn’t find a job outta college is now the expert on experts?

As a joke. To be ridiculed. Discredited. Erased.

This was something I’ve encountered over and over again in these past few weeks. Every thing that once held truth is gone. Scrubbed, a million times a second across platforms like facebook, twitter and the other narrative tunnels.

Sure, you can find this video still. If you really want to and know how to look.

“What can you do, thought Winston, against the lunatic who is more intelligent than yourself; who gives your arguments a fair hearing and simply persists in his lunacy?”

This was an amazing pre-covid article discussing the absurdity of expecting a mask to prevent flu or SARS-1.

Instead we find it scrubbed.

The ministry of truth is alive and well.

“Every record has been destroyed or falsified, every book rewritten, every picture has been repainted, every statue and street building has been renamed, every date has been altered. And the process is continuing day by day and minute by minute. History has stopped. Nothing exists except an endless present in which the Party is always right.”

I just don’t understand how people have been convinced, en mass, to not only believe, but perpetuate such absolute lunacy.

But what truly scares me is the ferocity with which they attack common sense and sanity.

“Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes of your own choosing.”

We live in terrifying times. It’s like something out of a dystopian novel, come to be all too real.

This is the post-scientific era. The era of big data and misinformation.

“But it was alright, everything was alright, the struggle was finished. He had won the victory over himself. He loved Big Brother.”

I fear we’ve lost long ago and I honestly have not the slightest clue what we can do to present any kind of resistance.

“Freedom is the freedom to say that two plus two make four. If that is granted, all else follows.”

Five minutes away from 1984.

“Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes of your own choosing.”

Disclaimer: This content does not necessarily represent the views of IWB.