The Freedom Convoy held its first press conference Sunday, with three of its lead members, organizers Tamara Lich, Benjamin Dichter, and Chris Barber, bashing the mainstream media and taking quetions only from independent journalists.

The massive convoy over the weekend rallied outside Canada's Parliament in Ottawa and has grown considerably in scope since its start. Truckers from the United States have joined the viral cause, as well as Indigenous groups.

"This is also why we omitted certain news agencies from this press conference, including the Toronto Star and the CBC who are banned from this press conference," Dichter stated. "And the reason they were banned is two-fold."

"First, this entire week the CBC, Toronto Star – Yahoo! News were retweeting and reposting with a few others – kept putting stories out that our GoFundMe was frozen or suspended because of nefarious reasons. You know 'right-wing truckers,' 'dangerous people,' and it was hysterical, me and Tamara were talking," the organizer continued at the press briefing, according to the Daily Wire.

Dichter asked Lich: "Remember one day the Toronto Star story came out that 'GoFundMe has frozen the account'?" He recounted that he called Lich and asked if everything is okay. "I just got off the phone with them 45 minutes ago. They're great. They're helping out. Everything's gonna be sorted out," she had said.

"That was purely, purely just a fake story," Dichter declared. "Was that a fake story to sabotage the donations that were coming in? Probably. You see a lot of that propaganda in the media. And then when the Toronto Star put that cartoon that Jordan Peterson put up, that sort of extremism we're not gonna tolerate."

Canadian thought leader Dr. Jordan Peterson tweeted the political cartoon in question. "Canadian. Fascists. Think about that. From the poison pen of the Toronto Star. Friend to the working class. Except when they have opinions," Peterson captioned the illustration that Tesla CEO Elon Musk also criticized.

"So we know if we had invited the Toronto Star, CBC, all of these mainstream news organizations they will do what they always do … They'll come in with five people and they will have these giant cameras and they'll take up half the floor space and bully everybody else. That is not what this is about; this is about us coming together, talking to one another, answering any questions that you have. If we have the answer we will tell you, if we don't have the answer we will tell you 'we don't know' and just have a nice conversation with each other and go from there."