A Wisconsin-based spice company lost 40,000 customers after its CEO called all Republicans racist.

Earlier this month, Penzeys Spices CEO Bill Penzey sent an email to his paying customers alerting them to a “Republicans are Racist” sale over Martin Luther King weekend.

“Remember how Republicans, going against a mountain of evidence to the contrary, once again lied and said BLM wasn’t a peaceful movement but instead terrorists inciting violence throughout the country and then raced out to buy a crapload of guns because maybe they were finally going to get their chance to shoot a Black person? What a bunch of racists,” Penzey wrote in the email.

Bill Penzey sent out another email admitting he lost tens of thousands of newsletter subscribers after he accused Republicans of being racist.



Penzey was reduced to begging his remaining customers to buy gift cards to offset his company’s losses.

“After starting the year with All Republicans are Republicans and following up with Republicans are Racists we’ve set a nice little Boycott Penzeys! surge in motion. It certainly wasn’t unexpected, but if it’s within your means, you picking up a small stack of Gift Cards would help,” Penzey wrote in an email on Friday, Fox News reported.

A Wisconsin-based spice company that made headlines earlier this month when its CEO sent an email to customers accusing Republicans of racism is now asking people to buy gift cards after hemorrhaging tens of thousands of customers. Since sending his controversial email, Penzey sent out another missive Friday asking for gift card purchases and admitting that his company had since lost 40,005 subscribers, which is approximately 3% of their base, according to 1130 WISN. Despite the fact that his politically-charged email reportedly brought in 30,000 new subscribers, Penzey conceded that “we are still down about 10,000. Please help.” “If you can’t even begin to fathom how to ‘compromise’ with January 6th, or the Republican vaccine lies needlessly killing 10,000 Americans every week, if you have no desire to become half-way racist, and if their intent to destroy our climate for one thousand years to come doesn’t have you asking: ‘What if we just destroyed it for five-hundred years instead?’ we would be better off with you on this Voice Of Cooking email list,” he wrote.

Former Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker said, “no one should buy Penzeys Spices.”