Hang your bag so that it doesn’t get in other people’s way.

When you sit at the table, place your bag on an empty chair next to you, on your knees, or behind you. Putting it on the floor or hanging it on the back of a chair is not appropriate because it can get in other people’s way. 



When moving across a crowd, hold the bag with your left hand and carry it on your left shoulder, or remove it from your shoulder and hold it in front of you. Be attentive to others when you put your bag on or take it off your shoulder so you don’t unintentionally hit someone.

Let the waiter come up to your table themselves.

Don’t shout or wave to the waiter when having dinner in a restaurant. When you need to place an order or ask for the bill, a good-mannered person will show patience and ask for someone’s attention when the staff passes by — for example, slightly raising a hand or calling the waiter by their name is more than enough.

Park your cart on the side of the aisle when shopping in a supermarket.

The traffic in supermarkets, especially on weekends and public holidays, can be very hectic. That’s why, just like with driving a car, there is an important rule to be followed — keep right. Move your cart closer to the right side, keep the middle part of the aisle open for other customers. If the aisle is too narrow, park your cart at the beginning of the aisle and walk to pick up the goods you need.

When you are in someone’s home, make sure to put a coaster or a tissue under your cup before putting it on furniture. If there are no coasters or tissues nearby, ask the host for some. Perhaps they have simply forgotten about it and will be very grateful if you ask for them.

Oftentimes, we have to answer phone calls in public places like when we are in a line to check out at the supermarket, at the bank, or on a bus. First, you should evaluate whether it is really important to answer the call right at that moment because your conversation will be heard by everyone around you. If you still need to answer it, then try to move to the side where there are not so many people.

Slide the chair toward the table when you leave.

Apart from being a basic rule of good manners (no matter whether you are in a restaurant or at a meeting), it’s simply a polite gesture toward those around you. Don’t forget to slide the chair toward the table after you get up so that it doesn’t prevent other people from moving, and so that someone doesn’t fall over it.

Applaud while keeping your hands at chest level.

Squeeze lemon into your cup, while covering the piece with your hand.

It’s hard to resist the temptation to squeeze a slice of lemon in order to give your tea a tinge of citrus. However, oftentimes, when doing so, we don’t think about those around us. The rules for good manners say: squeeze a lemon with one hand while covering it with the other as you squeeze it into your glass, so you don’t accidentally splash the juice in your across-the-table friend’s eye.

Remove your sunglasses when talking to someone.

There is a rule about the use of sunglasses that many people forget: it is considered impolite to not take them off when talking to another person. After all, we express most of our emotions with our eyes, and if we leave our sunglasses on our faces, then it means we don’t want to reveal our true feelings to whoever we are talking with.