We’ve known for a long time that the producers of The View do not require IQ tests for their hosts and on Monday we got to see even more proof of that. During a discussion over the movie MAUS, Whoopi claimed the Holocaust was not about race. Did the Nazis kill Albanian midgets? Perhaps Swedish agnostics? No, I am pretty sure they were trying to wipe out the Jewish race as they were rounding up Jews from every country they conquered and putting them to death.

“A Tennessee school pulled the graphic novel ‘Maus’ out of their lessons on the Holocaust because it contained some nudity and some bad language. Personally, I’m shocked because, you know, given the story of ‘Maus,’ I’m surprised that’s what made you uncomfortable, the fact that there was some nudity. I mean, it’s about the Holocaust. The killing of 6 million people, but that didn’t bother you? But the naked —”

Anna Navarro, who is not a previous award winner of the Annual Einstein Award claimed it was about white supremacy, but how does that wash with the fact that the Japanese and the Nazis were allies? Shouldn’t Hitler have started going after them?

Do you have any doubt that if some country tried to create a final solution targeting Muslims The View crowd would definitely agree that is race-based? They do the same with political parties. Republicans want slavery. But it was the Democrats. Republicans want to lynch Blacks. But it was the Democrats who were doing the lynching. Republicans want to revive Jim Crow laws. The Jim Crow Laws were written by Democrats.

“It’s not about race. It’s not about race,” Goldberg insisted.

“It’s about man’s inhumanity to man. That’s what it’s about,” Goldberg replied.

“But it’s about white supremacy,” Navarro objected. “It’s about going after Jews and gypsies —”

“But it’s not about —” Goldberg interrupted. “These are two white groups of people. How do we —”

“They came after black people too,” Behar pointed out, noting that the Nazis had not considered Jews to be “white” either.

“But you’re missing the point. You’re missing the point. The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley,” Goldberg was insistent. “Let’s talk about it for what it is. It’s how people treat each other. It’s a problem. It doesn’t matter if you are black or white because black, white, Jews, Italians, everybody eats each other. So is it — if you are uncomfortable if you hear about ‘Maus,’ should you be worried — should your child say, ‘Oh my God, I wonder if that’s me? No. That’s not what they’re going to say. They’re going to say, ‘I don’t want to be like that.’”