Comrade Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau did a perfect impression of Joe Biden when he popped out of hiding from a basement somewhere to make a brief statement about the protests that have been going on in the Canadian capital Ottawa for the last several days. Comrade Trudeau began by spreading lies and misinformation that no communist social media tech tyrant in good standing would censor. The tyrant then threw in a little virtue signaling, and rounded out the video by spreading some more lies and misinformation.

“I have attended protests and rallies in the past when I agreed with the goal when I supported the people expressing the concerns and issues; Black Lives Matter is an excellent example of that,” he said. “But I have also chosen to not go anywhere near protests that have expressed hateful rhetoric, violence towards fellow citizens, and a disrespect, not just of science but of the frontline health workers, and quite frankly the 90% of truckers who have been doing the right thing to keep Canadians safe and put food on our tables.”

So, Comrade Trudeau favors Black Lives Matter over ordinary citizens who are protesting against their government’s mistreatment of them for nearly two years. BLM is a communist organization, and that’s why Comrade Trudeau probably feels more comfortable with them, communists who more than likely have a penchant for authoritarian rule, than people who want their freedoms back.

In an Orwellian fashion, Trudeau ended his propaganda Newspeak message by making it appear that tyranny and authoritarian rule are the normal way they run Canada and those who long for their freedoms back are the bad guys.

“Canadians know where I stand. This is a moment for responsible leaders to think carefully about where they stand and who they stand with.”

This proves Trudeau doesn’t listen to the people, and it shows he is incapable of understanding that he works for the people, not the other way around.

He said he attended protests, and he singled out Black Lives Matter. There was one BLM rally I noticed that he did attend back in June 2020, where he bent the knee to the violent Marxist organization like a coward. How pathetic.

I only kneel for my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I kneel for no one else.

He said that the protests he went to are when he agrees with their goals and when they are “expressing their concerns and their issues.” But apparently not when their concerns and their issues are about being treated like prisoners in their own country when they did absolutely nothing wrong. What a hypocrite!

He then said he has chosen to not go near protests that have “expressed hateful rhetoric,” and “violence toward fellow citizens.”

Well, which is it? Does he support Black Lives Matter that is known for “expressing hateful rhetoric,” and committing “violence toward fellow citizens,” or does he not? He cannot say that he is against hateful rhetoric and violence toward fellow citizens, and at the same time, he supports an organization like Black Lives Matter. This is the Orwellian Newspeak that progressive leaders throw out there, and I don’t think Trudeau has the slightest idea that he sounds like the south end of a northbound horse when he says these things.

What buildings were set on fire by a convoy of truckers protesting for their freedoms back? Fake News media like MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough, who looks like the kid with the banjo on the bridge in Deliverance, said that the protesters showed disrespect for statues by affixing a flag in the hand of a statue, completely ignoring that the leftist riots that took place across the country had hundreds of historical statues toppled and defaced and set on fire. I don’t remember hearing the banjo kid saying Black Lives Matter thugs disrespected statues.

And did you catch the glimpse of the leftist media’s obligatory actors carrying a confederate flag and a swastika? The Left still thinks a lot of people fall for that?

Scarborough went on to call the protest a cult.

If we had an honest news media, the COVID leaders would be out on the streets looking for work. But for some reason, our news media support tyrannical authoritarians like Canada’s Justin Trudeau.