The global movement to rescue our planet from climate change includes countless organizations of all sizes acting together in a spirit of goodwill. Electric vehicles have emerged as one of the most promising technologies to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, allowing every motorist the opportunity to be a part of this unprecedented international effort. Here in the Bay Area, there is an inspiring grassroots organization that is helping people do just that.

Launched in 2018 by visionary environmentalist Carleen Cullen, Drive Clean Bay Area is working collaboratively with schools, cities, businesses, and other nongovernmental organizations to encourage people to make the switch to EVs. Cullen was a transportation policy advisor to governor-elect Gavin Newsom, and is determined to help him meet his goal of 100% EV adoption in California by 2035. DCBA’s data-driven approach benefits from its umbrella organization, Cool the Earth, an extraordinarily successful non-profit organization founded by Cullen in 2006. Acting in solidarity with over 30 environmental non-profits that include heavy hitters like the Sierra Club, 350BayArea, Coltura, Joint Venture Silicon Valley, Charge Across Town, Acterra, and Veloz, Cool the Earth has grown rapidly and is now a heavy hitter in its own right.

Cullen’s team at DCBA uses a wide variety of strategies to advance their noble mission. In just one year, their compelling advertisements have reached over a quarter of a million Bay Area residents. Many potential EV buyers have understandable concerns about this new technology. DCBA’s EV 101 educational events and materials provide valuable information on how to buy, drive, and charge EVs, giving timid buyers the courage to make the switch from gasoline to electrons. Children are often more open to new ways of doing things than adults, and DCBA’s school programs leverage the inherent persuasiveness of youngsters to help convert their parents. They also offer financial workshops to help people take full advantage of the ever-changing government incentive programs that are currently available. This can be especially helpful to low-income residents who may qualify for additional assistance. They are even working to provide incentives of their own. By pre-negotiating substantial price reductions on select EVs, DCBA has implemented an EV preferred pricing campaign that has helped thousands of motorists go green. If you’re curious at all about making your next vehicle an EV, there’s no better place to get started than visiting DCBA’s helpful website.

Many have characterized Governor Newsom’s plan to phase out the sale of vehicles with internal combustion engines by 2035 as unrealistic. Cullen believes that his worthwhile goal could be achieved even sooner. The United Kingdom plans to meet the same goal by 2030, a target date that is more in line with Cullen’s optimism. She knows how challenging it can be to convince consumers to make the switch to EVs. She also knows that EVs have improved dramatically over the last decade and will soon be getting even better. As scores of practical, more affordable EV models make their way into dealerships, DCBA is poised to help people drive them off the lots.

Drive Clean Bay Area is but one shining example of selfless organizations working around the globe to defeat the scourge of climate change. It’s easy to join DCBA’s crusade. They’re looking for drivers.