C0VID Criminals Will Be Held Accountable, Says Atty. Dr. Fleming in Warning Against Novavax

By The New American

The criminals behind the COVID pandemic are going to ultimately be held accountable under the law, Dr. Richard Fleming, who is also an attorney, told The New American magazine’s Senior Editor Alex Newman in this interview for Conversations that Matter (CTM). The two begin by discussing the Novavax, which Dr. Fleming warned against. While it works somewhat differently, the spike proteins will be made by moth cells instead of the injected person’s own cells. But Dr. Fleming noted that the spoke protein, which these shots are causing to be produced in one way or another, is the actual bio-weapon being used against the population.

Here’s what others had to say:

nautical

 There is no virus. It is the flu.

TheEmergencyGodcastingSystem

 Some are saying it is EMF exposure. Every time more EMFs are added to our atmosphere another epidemic breaks out. they have been lying to us since the 1800s. SARS was from added EMF exposure and so is covid. It was the same with polio and back then people were saying it wasn’t really a virus. It was from EMFs and DDT from pesticides. Then they kept changing the name of the disease so people would think the vaccines were actually working. People were dying from those vaccines too and the media never talked about it. Interesting how whenever they add more jabs that they tell people to take ADD, ADHD, autism, asthma, allergies and other common ailments have been on the rise. Even the Spanish flu of 1918 was connected to short wave radio. Nor everyone had short wave radios and it took a few years for more people to get them, so it took a little longer for that to catch up with people. The electromagnetic frequencies bore holes in our intestine which is where our immune system is. People are absolutely correct about covid not being a virus. Most people aren’t aware of the EMF connection though to put the rest of the puzzle pieces together.

FLAUTHOR

 I follow the teachings of two late Drs. Fred Klenner and Robert Cathcart who killed the Polio and Pneumonia viruses with High Dose Vitamin C. Klenner stated that a “Physician would standby and watch their patients die from a virus because in their finite mind Ascorbic Acid is nothing but a vitamin.”. They developed a formula of bowel tolerance intravenous Vitamin C that killed the viruses. Yet Dr. Tony Fauci said it does not work on Covid19, I think he is lying.

 The truth is Big Pharma can not put a patent on a all natural vitamin, cannot not synthesize it and its cheap so they can not charge thousands of dollars for a treatment. So they dub it as a QUACK TREATMENT. How many of the thousands of people who died a horrible death could have been treated with high dose intravenous Vitamin C and survived.

 In my book, withholding such a life saving treatment is MURDER. They will answer for their crimes in God’s Court room in their future. It was pure greed, they did it for the money that those ‘vaccines” created.

 I am unvaccinated, I follow what Dr. Cathcart transcribed by using high dosage of Vitamin C. D3, K2, B6, L-Arginine and a multivitamin with everything else, orally daily. I have not contracted the virus. I had two sore throats that I killed using EmergenC 1000mg drink powders. I take 500 mg of C when going out in the public and again when I return.

 I am passing on this video to others who are unvaxxed. Thank you for your attention.

TheEmergencyGodcastingSystem

 When you look at the AMA symbol of the serpent on a pole, it actually stems from an ancient Greek mythology symbol that looks very similar. The AMA was started by John D. Rockefeller in the early 1900s. Before that, the medical doctors practiced primarily natura medicine. Then Rockefeller came along and founded the AMA and then the natural medicine went out the door and drugs and surgery came in and took over. The doctors who protested were stripped of their medical license to practice. The ones who continued to fight it through court were arrested and put in prison. Now we see how it has completely taken over our entire society. It has always been evil!

PSDay

 Does Astra Zeneca or any of these experimental gene therapies contain graphene oxide?

deeinacan

 I’m glad I found this video. I’ve been looking for info on Novavax since they’re now talking about it being approved for emergency use soon. Seems like it’s the same garbage they’ve been pushing with the other shots.

 The info about Prion disease was especially interesting to me. In October when I was having to make a decision about taking the shot or losing my job, I was praying and the Lord gave me 3 words “mad cow disease”. That was all I needed to hear. I’ve only heard of the shots causing this in the last month & I’ve only heard Dr. Fleming talking about it & Rachel Celler, RN.