HERCULES — A 29-year-old Sacramento man suspected of trying to hit a Hercules police officer with a vehicle Tuesday was arrested after a high-speed chase to Martinez, authorities said Wednesday.

Hercules police said the incident began about 10:15 a.m. Tuesday when a city automated license plate reader camera captured a white 2019 Acura RDX wanted by the California Highway Patrol driving westbound on Willow Avenue near Sycamore Avenue.

Soon after, an officer spotted the vehicle parked in a lot in front of a business in the 1500 block of Sycamore Avenue. It was occupied by two people the engine was running. The officer pulled behind the Acura, which had been sought for felony evading, with his patrol vehicle emergency lights activated and a second officer responded to the scene.

The officers began ordering the driver to turn off the engine, but instead the driver put the vehicle into reverse and almost hit one of the officers before striking the patrol vehicle, police said.

The Acura drove from the parking lot at high speed, nearly causing a collision as it turned onto Willow Avenue from Sycamore. The Acura then got onto eastbound Highway 4 lanes with officers in pursuit.

Police said the Acura reached speeds of 100 mph before exiting at Cummings Skyway and drove through Franklin Canyon Road into Martinez a dozen miles away.

Moments later, the Acura struck the median on Alhambra Avenue as it re-entered eastbound Highway 4, lost a tire and exited Highway 4 eastbound at Pacheco Boulevard in Martinez.

The Acura drove on a rim through Martinez neighborhoods and eventually was disabled in a Pacheco Boulevard parking lot, police said.

With help from Contra Costa County sheriff’s deputies, the two occupants were detained.

The driver, identified as the Sacramento resident, was arrested on a felony warrant out of San Mateo County as well as for suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon on a police officer, felony evading and resisting arrest. His passenger, a 36-year-old San Pablo man, was released pending further investigation, police said.