Biden Says Admin ‘Has To Figure Out’ Why Illegal Aliens Leave Their Countries

White House occupant Joe Biden said Monday that his administration is committed to improving the border crisis by trying to “figure out” why illegal aliens decide to leave their home countries for the United States in the first place.

“We’re working a lot with neighboring countries. A lot to do,” Biden said during a White House meeting with Kamala Harris and the National Governors Association (NGA).

“I think one of the fundamental things we’ve got to do in addition to some of the changes we’ll make, which we won’t get into it today, is that if we figure out why they’re leaving in the first place,” he continued. “It’s not like people sit around and say, in Guadalajara, ‘I got a great idea, let’s sell everything we have, give it to a coyote, take us across the border, leave us in the desert in a country doesn’t want us. We don’t speak the language. Won’t that be fun?’”

“You know, there are gangs we’re working on, there’s a whole lot of illegal movement, but there’s also a way to begin to deal with the reason they’re leaving in the first place,” he added.

The comments by Biden came after Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, who is both chairman of the NGA and a Republican, asked him to explain how his adminstration is helping remedy the surge in illegal immigration at the border.

“I had the opportunity to serve in the Bush administration and on border security, so I know how tough it is. I know how difficult it is,” Hutchinson said. “Some of the governors have actually sent our National Guard resources, you know, to the border to assist at state expense. So we’d welcome your comments as to how you’re meeting this challenge and the plans for the future in that regard.”

Hutchinson is himself no stranger to being put on the hot seat, famously drawing noteriety in April of 2021 after he told Tucker Carlson that he believes in the right of young children to have their genitals chemically mutulated should their parents and doctor approve of such an act.

If reporting by the Customer and Border Protection (CBP) is of any significance, the situation at the United States southern border has continued to remain a disaster. Numbers out of the CBP in January display a total of 178,840 encounters with aliens at the border in the month of December alone, up from a previous staggering amount of 173,620 sightings in the month prior. This data marks a drastic increase from the same months of the previous year, with Fox News reporting 72,113 encounters in November and 73,994 in December respectively.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.