New Jersey Gym Owner Who Stood Up Against Lockdowns is Running for Congress

As result, there is a budding revolt being spearheaded by disgruntled small business owners. Ian Smith, the co-owner of Atilis Gym, is one of those individuals leading the charge against America’s growing medical tyranny.

Atilis Gym garnered national attention when it refused to comply with New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy’s lockdown orders and is now facing one year probation.

According to a report by Hannah Bleau of Breitbart News, Smith is now running for Congress. The co-owner of Atilis Gym made his announcement on January 31, 2022.

Smith and his business partner Frank Trumbetti made it a point to resist Murphy’s draconian lockdown restrictions by keeping their gym open despite the governor’s decision to classify said business as “non-essential.”

The state health department responded by shutting the gym down after the owners opened their facility in protest of the arbitrary closure order.

Due to their defiance of the state’s shut down order, Trumbetti and Smith have been sentenced to one year probation after pleading guilty to fourth-degree criminal contempt of court.

Smith declared that the charge was for “taking the doors off of the hinges to impede the state from locking us out of our business.”

“Being sentenced to probation for taking the doors off of our own building, while criminals are being let go is an absolute joke,” co-owner Trumbetti said in an interview with Fox Business Sunday.

On January 31, Smith upped the stakes by announcing his congressional campaign for New Jersey’s 3rd congressional district as a way to hold New Jersey’s political leadership accountable.

“This Thursday 2/3 I’ll be formally announcing my campaign for Congress in NJ CD-3 against @AndyKimNJ. I am truly excited to have the possibility to serve the people of NJ with a platform focused on liberty, small government, and America First policies,” Smith announced.

New Jersey’s 3rd congressional district is unique in that it’s one of 7 districts that went for Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election while remaining in Democrat hands.

Trump took it by a margin of 49.4% to 49.2% in the 2020 presidential election, whereas Democratic incumbent Andy Kim won it by 53.2% to 45.5% that same cycle.

By taking a populist approach, Smith could potentially pull off a major upset in the 2022 election cycle, as Republicans are expected to dominate in the midterms.

People are tired of the lockdowns, and Smith could be the folk hero that gets New Jersey’s frustrated working class voters to revolt against Democrats.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.