Biden Press Sec Laughs At Those Concerned With ‘Soft-On-Crime’ Policy

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki drew heat after mocking Fox News for covering the consequences of ‘soft-on-crime’ policies as opposed to talking more about United States troops at the Pentagon.

The comments by Psaki came on the January 25 episode of the “Pod Save America” podcast with fellow Obama administration alumni Jon Favreau, Daniel Pfeiffer, Jon Lovett, and Tommy Vietor. The conversation came up when the White House press secretary was comparing the ’24/7 live coverage’ of mainstream media outlets CNN, MSNBC, CNBC, and Fox News.

“Do you remember the four boxes that we had on all the TVs right?” Psaki said on the show. “So right now just to give you a sense,” she continued before reading off what stories the media outlets were currently covering on TV.

“So CNN – ‘Pentagon: As many as 8,500 u.s troops on heightened alert’ — OK, true. .. Same on MSNBC … CNBC is doing their own thing about the market … and then on Fox is Janine Pirro talking about ‘soft-on-crime consequences,’ she said while laughing. “I mean what does that even mean, right?”

“So there’s an alternate universe on some coverage,” she concluded, before fear-mongering about the horror of an American citizen being concerned about rising levels of violent crime. “What’s scary about it is a lot of people watch that.”

This showing by Psaki follows the setting of new annual homicide records by 12 major US cities in the year 2021, all of which were Democrat-run.

The White House Press Secretary previously went on record in December discussing the “increase in crime over the course of the pandemic” — but refused to say if she thinks that ‘soft-on-crime’ policies are at least partially responsible.

“Do you think it’s possible that these cities are dealing with these smash and grab robberies right now, an increase in criminal activity, because some prosecutors are too soft on crime?” Fox News reporter Peter Doocy asked. “I would say we have seen, I’m not going to attribute the reasoning from here, what I will tell you is we have seen an increase in crime over the course of the pandemic. There are a range of reasons for that,” she claimed. “And what our focus is on is what we can do to address it. The President has proposed additional funding in the budget to make sure local police departments and cops have the funding they need. We have also worked directly with police departments in areas where they are seeing the highest impact of the crime, the retail theft, which we have great concern about. That’s what our focus is on currently, is action, and doing what we can to make sure the funding is out there to the communities that need it the most.” WATCH: Psaki’s Dodge When Pressed About Rising Crime Rates Across Country

Numerous people have taken to social media in order to criticize Psaki’s flippant attitude towards Americans who are concerned with what may happen as a result of ‘soft-on-crime’ practices, including Former Trump White House advisor Stephen Miller.

“A truly appalling video,” Miller wrote. “Psaki laughingly mocks those concerned over ‘soft-on-crime consequences,’ as living in an ‘alternate universe.’ ‘What does that even mean?’ Psaki laments. Perhaps she should start by asking the NYPD heroes who lined 5th Avenue to honor their slain comrade.”

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.