Republicans today are more angry that President Biden has vowed to nominate a black woman to the Supreme Court than the fact that no black woman has ever served on or even been nominated to the court. Taking the most offense lately is Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), whose quick flight to Cancun during a Texas power grid failure and comments about insurrectionists being terrorists and a pleading apology to Tucker Carlson has put him in desperate need of a new conversation.

Cruz has a new talk show on YouTube where he tries to steer the conversation back to a positive one about him and his fear of a rapidly sinking approval rating among Trump supporters in Texas. On that show, he did his whole white outrage dance, speaking to racist voters who are incensed over the idea of a black woman taking a job they believe a white man is entitled to have. On that show, he said:

‘The fact that he is willing to make a promise at the outset that it must be a Black woman I’ve got to say that’s offensive. Black women are what, 6 percent of the U.S. population? He’s saying to 94 percent of Americans ‘I don’t give a damn about you, you are ineligible…It’s actually an insult to Black women, if he [Biden] came and said ‘I’m going to put the best jurist on the court’, and he looked at a number of people and he ended up nominating a Black woman he could credibly say ‘OK, I’m nominating the person who is most qualified.’ He’s not even pretending to say that. He’s saying if you’re a white guy, tough luck. If you’re a white woman, tough luck, you don’t qualify.’

On Tuesday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki was asked a question about those comments during a press conference. Psaki was quick to note that two Republicans, Donald Trump and Ronald Reagan, had both vowed to nominate women to the Supreme Court, considering no male justices for the job, and the GOP had been utterly silent about it.

‘Take Senator Cruz himself. He had no objection to Donald Trump promising he would nominate a woman in 2020. Repeat: no objections at all. In fact, he praised her on these grounds…during her confirmation hearing, Sen. Cruz said “I think you are an amazing role model for little girls. What advice would you give little girls?” When Present Reagan honored his campaign pledge to place the first woman on the court he said it symbolized the unique American opportunity. There is no outcry around that. ‘The president’s view is that after 230 years of the Supreme Court’s being in existence, the fact that not a single black woman has served on the Supreme Court is a failure in the process, not a failure or a lack of qualified black women to serve as Supreme Court justices.’

Twitter had a big reaction to Psaki once again schooling the right and Ted Cruz being once again schooled while he plays his white outrage game. Read some of their comments below: