Amid her ongoing civil investigation of the Trump family business, New York state Attorney General Letitia James (D) has now subpoenaed records related to the Trump hotel housed in Washington, D.C.’s historic Old Post Office building, according to a new report from The Washington Post. These records are held by the General Services Administration (GSA), an arm of the federal government, and items that James is after include “information about how the agency selected” Trump’s business to take up residence at the property, as explained by the Post. James is apparently attempting to determine how Trump may have inaccurately represented his financial condition in pursuing — and obtaining — the lease to use the government-owned building. James has also been investigating how Trump apparently fraudulently adjusted valuations of his company’s assets in other contexts.

Trump is now aiming to sell off his company’s lease for the D.C. building, which could bring in upwards of $100 million for his family business. (A sale would have to be approved by the GSA to go through.) James’s new attention on the Trump D.C. hotel comes months after the House Oversight Committee concluded that Trump had apparently lied to federal authorities about his financial status in the process of obtaining the D.C. building’s lease. Committee chair Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Gerald Connolly (D-Va.) claimed that Trump “concealed hundreds of millions of dollars in debts from GSA when bidding on the Old Post Office Building lease.” Connolly observed, in reference to the sought after sale, that if Trump “walks away from this laughing all the way to the bank with a $100 million profit, we will have debased the whole concept of enforcing conflict of interests laws and ethics.”

As explained by The Washington Post, the House Oversight Committee released materials that the Trump Organization submitted to the GSA including “three of Trump’s statements of financial condition, from 2008, 2009 and 2010, which appear to include inaccurate or misleading financial information that inflated the value of his assets.” The document from 2008 stated that his Seven Springs estate in Westchester County, New York, was zoned for over two dozen townhomes… but with Trump owning it, the property has actually apparently never been zoned for such development.

Trump has sued in an attempt to stop James’s civil investigation from proceeding, and with the same lawsuit, the former president is also hoping to get James’s participation in a criminal investigation led by the Manhattan District Attorney stopped. That criminal probe culminated in part in tax evasion charges for the Trump company and its longtime chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg, over a years-long scheme in which pricey executive benefits were doled out without the required taxes getting paid. James is seeking the dismissal of Trump’s lawsuit targeting her own investigative work. In a filing, James’s team insisted that the “public interest is served by having [the prosecutors’ office] continue its Investigation into allegations of fraud and misrepresentation in Mr. Trump’s financial statements provided to financial institutions and the government.”