Teens from the seventh to eleventh grades were eager to begin their first Teen Banned Book Club meeting. The current book banning by ultra-conservatives was reminiscent of Nazis burning 25,000 books on May 10, 1933. Back then, they burned books by Jewish authors. But there were other authors whose books were burned, too. They included “Ernest Hemingway and Helen Keller.”

Young people in Kutztown, Pennsylvania took on the book-banning experience and succeeded in turning it into something powerful. They created the Teen Banned Book Club.

The Nazis’ book-burning was extensive, according to PBS:

But in Kutztown, they held bi-weekly discussions focused on classic novels and current hot topics. They talk about “challenged stories, discussing both classic novels and current hot topics,” according to The Reading Eagle.

Eighth grader Joslyn Diffenbaugh (14) founded the book club and said:

Her mother, Lisa, helped establish the club and commented:

Her mother continued, saying the effort resulted in giving kids a chance to “freely discuss their own opinions without censorship:”

‘This club gives teens the opportunity to read books that speak to them and be able to freely discuss their own opinions without censorship. It also gives them the opportunity to look at the history of book banning and relate it to what is happening today.’

Lisa was excited about the positive national and international “support:”

Jordan said the Teen Banned Book Club was about current books:

‘We plan to focus on the topics that got each book we will be reading “banned,’”both older and more recent books, how they relate to the story and the past and present of our country’s social issues, which we hope will help our members further develop critical thinking skills in regards to how fiction can both be a reflection of the reality of the time it was written as well as how it can affect reality.’

Lisa continued, saying that “donations continue to come in to fund the books:”

Three White Lions podcast, Gloria Christie reads a chapter from her book of the same title. She also writes for the liberal online newspaper The Bipartisan Report. Gloria Christie Report her newsletter for people on the go. Written in her own unique style with a twist of humor in a briefer version of Bipartisan Report. Christie’s Mueller Report Adventures In Bite-Sizes a real-life compelling spy mystery (in process). Find her here on Facebook.