Anyone with half a brain and a belief in democracy is now piling on Senator Josh Hawley (R-MO) today after Hawley became the first Republican U.S. Senator to sign onto Congressman Mo Brooks’ (R-AL) seditious attempt to challenge the slates of legitimately appointed electors from the swing states won by Joe Biden and replace then with phony slates of electors illicitly named by rogue GOP state legislators in those locales.

Former CIA Director John Brennan joined the fray today with a particularly brutal takedown of the reprehensible Missouri Senator in a post on Twitter.

Add your name to tell Trump: You Lost! Concede!

As the former spy chief suggests, with such a wealth of deserving targets, it’s difficult to single out a winner for the “Most Craven, Unprincipled, & Corrupt Senator” designation.

Many would place Senator Hawley in a lower tier of the unholy competition than Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) whose evil obstructionism dates back to long before Hawley was even elected to public office. i

For Brennan, however, like Hawley’s Democratic colleague Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), the actions of the Missouri lawmaker cross the line from dirty politics and malicious intent to out and out sedition with Hawley’s call for the overturn of a legitimately determined election result.

While the former CIA Director properly characterizes Hawley as “Craven, Unprincipled, & Corrupt,” his attack on the right-wing extremist GOP legislator essentially is an accurately negative depiction of Hawley’s character and integrity.

Earlier today, Senator Murphy went even further, accusing his senatorial colleague of actively undermining our government and indeed, our entire democratic system.

“Let’s be clear, Josh Hawley and anyone who supports his effort are engaged in the attempted overthrow of democracy. There is no evidence that there was any fraud. Senator Hawley apparently believes that if a Democrat wins the presidential race, it must be illegitimate by definition, even absent any actual evidence of misbehavior,” Senator Murphy began. “While you’re right that Senator Hawley’s efforts here are not going to change the results of the election, Joe Biden is still going to be president, there won’t be enough votes to overturn the Electoral College, what he is doing and those who support him are doing is breeding in the American public and certainly amongst the hardcore Trump supporters this belief that the election itself was illegitimate and any time a Democrat wins, it must be illegitimate. That is ultimately going to potentially end in the overthrow of democracy. At some point, there will be a successful attempt by Republicans at the state level or national level to throw out a legitimate election just because a Democrat won. We don’t do this in this country, right? We put our country before our party and our personal beliefs. Senator Hawley’s efforts are not going to change the result of the election, but they pose a grave threat to American democracy, maybe not this year, but two years from now, four years from now, absolutely,” the Connecticut legislator concluded his savage diatribe.

When people like Senator Murphy, John Brennan — and the many others who have loudly condemned the partisan hypocrisy and the skullduggery being attempted by Senator Hawley and his partisan counterpart in the House of Representatives, Congressman Brooks — go apoplectic over something that they consider a huge danger to our democracy, the American people should find it worth their while to pay attention.

As founding father Benjamin Franklin was reported to have said at the end of the Constitutional Convention, America had been delivered “a republic, if you can keep it.”

Unless the shameless and treasonous power grab being attempted by Donald Trump and his GOP allies like Hawley and Brooks is stopped definitively and mercilessly, keeping our democracy may be more difficult than any modern American could have imagined, especially when someone like the Missouri Senator, as one Twitter comment said, serves up sedition with a side of grandstanding.

We want to hear what YOU have to say. Scroll down and let us know in our NEW comment section!