We’re all curious about our ancestry and where we come from. In 2019 alone, a whopping 26 million people took DNA tests to find out their genetic makeup. But there may be another way to see where some of your ancestors are from. And that can be done simply by looking at different parts of your body.

1. Foot shape can help determine your genetic lineage.

2. Nose shape can divulge where your ancestors are from.

Of course, noses come in all shapes and sizes. But our ancestors’ environment may have an effect on our nose shape, according to a study. The nose’s purpose is not just to smell, but it also filters and regulates the air we breathe. 



Therefore, if our ancestors lived in cooler climates, they evolved to have narrow noses with smaller nostrils to warm the cold air being inhaled. And in the hotter, more humid climates, a wider bridge, and more open nostrils would have been essential to survive the heat.

4. Your eyes can tell what personality traits you have.

A study showed that people who have eyebrows that appear lifted, along with big eyes, proved to be more agreeable. It also showed that people with larger lips and noses were more extroverted.

A study found that people who had a shorter index finger than their ring finger were likely to be more athletic. This is because, in the womb, they were exposed to greater amounts of testosterone. People with lower testosterone levels are associated with having better verbal memories.



6. Belly button placement may indicate that you are a good swimmer or runner.

Belly button placement is a sign of where our center of gravity is located. It doesn’t matter if it’s an innie or an outie, but its position on our torso means something. 

A lower belly button may mean you’re a better swimmer, according to a study. A higher belly button could make you a brilliant runner.

7. Our hands may indicate our personality traits.

Wider spread fingers may indicate that you’re independent and seek out solo adventures. 

According to the director of the American Academy of Hand Analysis, each finger is associated with different characteristics. She said that the strongest finger may reveal what things are important to you.

Our strongest finger is the one that, when placing our hands flat, doesn’t have any bends or lean toward any of our other fingers.

8. Eyebrow length may show what personality traits we have.