Most of us become self-conscious if we have wrinkly skin, a gap between our , or a crooked nose. If you thought these traits were all problematic, then you’re in for a surprise because many people actually find them extremely attractive.

A large forehead does not necessarily indicate a sign of intelligence, but over the years, a lot of research has been done that proves people with bigger foreheads are more likely to accomplish tasks connected to intelligence. Some say it makes you look more youthful and cute.

A study concluded that a wife’s happiness is connected to a bigger height difference. However, this characteristic is only attractive at first, since other problems can appear later on in the relationship and make it fade.

There are some stereotypes that are related to face, nose, and chin proportions and intelligence for both males and females. A narrow face with a thinner chin and a bigger nose is stereotyped as having greater intelligence, while a broader face with a big chin and a small nose is perceived as having lower intelligence.

People with wrinkles around their eyes when they smile, also known as “crow’s feet,” are considered more attractive and smart. They are seen as “more authentic, intense, spontaneous,” and amusing.

For a long time, having pointy ears was considered a beauty flaw, but now people are going out of their way to get them. In China, they are actually considered good luck and they make the face look smaller and the person appear smarter overall.

Women who wear glasses are observed as desirable and sensual to men. It gives the woman a “class appeal” because it reveals a sense of intelligence and intellect.

The “dad bod” is the physique of a man who is considered somewhat fit but isn’t muscular or lean. They have a bit of weight on them but are also, to some degree, in shape. 



Research shows that 78% of women think this type of figure means that a man is confident, happy, and makes sure his family is taken care of. Not only that, but it’s also considered more attractive to the ladies.

Research shows that women who have bushy eyebrows are more attractive to men who are looking for a long-term relationship and even marriage.

Gap teeth are so attractive in some places that people tend to widen their gaps to appear more visible. It makes people look more unique and gives them a “signature look.” A woman with this unique feature is also considered beautiful and desirable, making men love to see her smile.

What physical “flaws” do you have that you’re insecure about? Do you feel less self-conscious after reading this article?

Please note: This article was updated in January 2022 to correct source material and factual inaccuracies.