Two nurses on Long Island are under arrest, accused of forging vaccination cards and pocketing more than $1.5 million from the scheme, prosecutors and police said. CBS New York reports the owner of the Amityville pediatric clinic allegedly entered the bogus information into the New York state health department database.

Julie DeVuono, the owner of Wild Child Pediatric Healthcare in Amityville, and her employee, Marissa Urraro, are both charged with felony forgery, and DeVuono also is charged with offering a false instrument for filing. Both were arraigned Friday.

Urraro's lawyer, Michael Alber, urged people not to rush to judgment about the allegations and said his client is a well-respected nurse.

"We look forward to highlighting the legal impediments and defects of the investigation," he said Saturday. "It's our hope that an accusation definitely doesn't overshadow the good work Miss Urraro's done for children and adults in the medical field."

Suffolk County District Attorney Raymond Tierney said DeVuono and Urraro handed out fake vaccination cards, charging $220 for adults and $85 for children. DeVuono, a nurse practitioner, and Urraro, a licensed practical nurse, entered the false information into the state's immunization database, he said.

Prosecutors said the nurses forged a fake card showing a vaccine was given to an undercover detective but never administered the vaccine to the detective.

Law enforcement officers searched DeVuono's home and said they seized about $900,000 in cash and a ledger showing profits of more than $1.5 million from the scheme, which began in November 2021.

"I hope this sends a message to others who are considering gaming the system that they will get caught and that we will enforce the law to the fullest extent," Tierney said in a statement with other officials.

Suffolk County Police Commissioner Rodney Harrison added, "As nurses, these two individuals should understand the importance of legitimate vaccination cards as we all work together to protect public health."

Business owners who operate small shops near the clinic said they suspected something untoward was happening with the amount of foot traffic, CBS New York reports.

"It's frightening beyond words, and I'm grateful it has been put to an end," said Erin Bevilacqua. "Break laws, give fake vaccines. Very disheartening."

The anti-vaccine movement was part of a parents' rights rally on Long Island earlier in the week, many taking their children out of school to march for choice when it comes to mask wearing and mandates over COVID-19 vaccines, the station reported.