The U.S. State Department said it had received a written response from Russia regarding negotiations over Ukraine, though Russia later claimed it wasn't a response but rather a "clarification."

The follow-up exchange comes after the U.S. responded to a list of Russian demands amid Russia's military buildup near Ukraine.

"It would be unproductive to negotiate in public, so we'll leave it up to Russia if they want to discuss their response," the State Department spokesperson said Monday. "We remain fully committed to dialogue to address these issues and will continue to consult closely with our allies and partners, including Ukraine."

On Tuesday, Russia's U.N. Ambassador played down the exchange to CBS News' Pamela Falk. "There is no response on the American response. It is being now coordinated between relevant Ministries. It will come, of course. But the letter that was sent to U.S. and other NATO members was clarification of our understanding of European security."

The news of Russia's written response was first reported by The Washington Post.

Last week, the U.S. responded to Russia, emphasizing Ukraine's sovereignty while suggesting potential for progress in areas like arms control in Europe and ways to increase transparency and stability.

The U.S. and its NATO allies have warned for weeks that President Vladimir Putin could use the forces he has built up near the Ukraine border to launch a new invasion of the country as soon as February, though Putin's government denies such intentions.

The United Nations Security Council met Monday, with U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield saying the hope is that Russia continues "along the route of diplomacy and find a solution — a way forward so that Ukraine can feel comfortable and secure in its own borders."

Meanwhile, Ukraine has approved President Biden's pick of Bridget Brink for U.S. ambassador to Ukraine. While Brink has been the frontrunner for months, it's unclear what delayed the administration in finalizing the pick and in requesting Ukraine's approval. Mr. Biden has not yet announced his selection.

Mr. Biden spoke with Ukraine's president last week, and has been consulting with European allies.

Editor's Note: This article has been updated to include a statement from Russia's U.N. Ambassador.