CBS Essentials is created independently from the CBS News staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.

It's official. On Feb. 13, the Cincinnati Bengals will take on the Los Angeles Rams for the title of Super Bowl LVI champions.

Bengals fans, you've been waiting 33 years for your team to make their Super Bowl comeback. It's time to show your love for the Cincinnati Bengals and wear some loud and proud Bengals merch. We found all the best Bengals gear the internet has to offer. We've found options for everyone, from bandwagon fans to long-time fans looking for the best Cincinnati Bengals hats, hoodies, tees and accessories.

Before you slip into something sporty, there are a few more things you're going to need before the big game: Maybe it's time to upgrade your TV. Samsung just put its best TVs for watching sports on sale ahead of the Super Bowl. And if it's time to level up your TV audio, these are the best soundbar deals you can get right now. What's your seating situation like? Check out these bean bags and other easy seating so everyone can be comfortable during the game. You'll also need easy, impressive food to order for your Super Bowl party -- and an airfryer or an Instant Pot to keep it all warm.

While you're planning your Super Bowl party setup, keep scrolling to shop your game day outfit.

Worried about spilling queso dip down your new duds? This lightweight Bengals hoodie is machine washable.

Wear this shirt and look extra FAN-tastic while you sing the Bengals fight song. "Touchdown Bengals, get some points upon that board and win a game for Cincinnati!"

Are you part of Who Dey Nation? This pre-shrunk Bengals T-shirt is made with ringspun cotton and polyester.

Wear this jersey to show your love for Bengals quarterback Joe Burrow as you watch him try to go all the way Feb. 13.

Stay cozy and show off your team spirit with this hooded Bengals sweatshirt. Order it ASAP so it arrives before the Super Bowl.

Show off your Bengals spirit in this majestic threads Super Bowl LVI long sleeve tee. The long sleeve runs from a size small to a 3XL.

This Bengals ball cap is an absolute must for any fan. It features the Bengals logo on the front and Super Bowl LVI on the side.

Bet you don't have a hat like this yet. The adjustable cap comes in black and features a velcro-back closure.

If you're looking to add some sparkle to your Bengals game day outfit, try these earrings. These rhinestone one-inch hoop earrings feature a floating Bengals logo. They are made with hypoallergenic fishhook posts.

These youth gloves are officially licensed by the NFL. They feature the authentic Bengals team logo and have a silicone palm with extended thumb and forefinger coverage. They're currently sold in two sizes.
• None The biggest and best deals on TVs ahead of the Super Bowl
• None Level up your TV audio: The best soundbar deals you can get before the Super Bowl
• None Easy, impressive food to order for your Super Bowl party
• None Samsung just put its best TVs for watching sports on sale ahead of the Super Bowl