CBS Essentials is created independently from the CBS News staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.

The Super Bowl is America's biggest sporting event of the year. Last year, more than 90 million viewers tuned in to watch the NFC champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers battle the AFC champion Kansas City Chiefs for the Vince Lombardi trophy and the title of Super Bowl champions. Whether you're planning to watch this year's game out of a true love for football; excitement over the traditional game day snacks; or just to catch the iconic commercials and often history making half-time show, Super Bowl LVI is an event you won't want to miss.

This year, the Super Bowl falls on Feb. 13, aka Valentine's Day weekend. The Los Angeles Rams will be facing off against the Cincinnati Bengals at their home stadium in Inglewood, California.

Super Bowl LVI's halftime show is set to make music history, with Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Mary J. Blige and Kendrick Lamar all performing together for the first time. Collectively, the performers will be bringing 43 Grammy awards to the SoFi Stadium stage.

Keep reading to find out everything you need to know about how to watch Super Bowl LVI in 2022.

When is the 2022 Super Bowl LVI?

Super Bowl LVI will air Sunday, Feb. 13, 2022. The game will kick off at approximately 6:30 p.m. EST.

Where to watch the Super Bowl 2022:

Not sure which channel will air the Super Bowl on this year? Or perhaps you've recently cut that cable cord and want to know where to stream the Super Bowl this year. You've got plenty of options. Super Bowl LVI will be televised by NBC, making Peacock and the NBC Sports app the easiest way to stream the game if you don't have cable or a TV antenna.

Premium Peacock subscribers have access to stream all of NBC's NFL Playoff games and Super Bowl LVI on Feb. 13.

Peacock Premium has two tiers, a $5 monthly ad-supported subscription, and a $10 monthly ad-free subscription. If you plan on watching this year's Super Bowl live, the tier difference won't matter, as all livestream content will have ads included regardless -- and who would want to miss out on those great Super Bowl commercials anyway?

If you have NBC through a cable subscription but still want the option of streaming the Super Bowl on a smartphone or tablet, the NBC Sports App will also be livestreaming this year's game.

A subscription to Hulu Live TV offers unlimited access to all local and national NFL games, as well as access to NBC live content. The streaming service also grants subscribers access to NFL Network -- a channel with year-round football content. Watch live NFL preseason games, exclusive live NFL regular season games, studio shows and a variety of original NFL-centric series.

For an additional $10 per month, sports fans get Hulu's sports add-on package with NFL RedZone. It offers seven hours of Sunday Night Football action every week.

FuboTV is a sports-centric option for catching the Super Bowl with access to NBC content, as well as every NFL game, all season long.

In addition to football, FuboTV also offers MLB, NBA, NHL, MLS and international soccer games. A la YouTube TV and Roku, NFL Network is included in the basic package, while NFL RedZone costs an additional $11 per month.

What teams are playing in this year's Super Bowl?

This past weekend's AFC and NFC Championship games determined the two teams getting a shot at the Vince Lombardi trophy this year: The Los Angeles Rams and the Cincinnati Bengals.

This year's Super Bowl makes the Rams the second team in Super Bowl history to play in the Super Bowl while also playing host at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California. Last year's Super Bowl saw the Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeat the Kansas City Chiefs in Raymond-James Stadium.

Want to rep your favorite football team on game day this year? Here's some great fan merchandise for the Rams and Bengals to help you show your team pride on Feb. 13.

This classic Rams T-shirt will let everyone know what team you're rooting for. The pre-shrunk tee runs up to a 2XL.

Bet you don't have a hat like this yet. The adjustable cap comes in black and features a velcro-back closure.

This T-shirt is a great option for people who want to look sporty, but not too sporty. It features the LA Rams logo for some extra team spirit. The tee runs up to a 2XL.

Stay cozy and show off your team spirit with this hooded Bengals sweatshirt. Order it ASAP so it arrives before the Super Bowl.

This NFL plastic snack helmet will be the most festive snack bowl at your Super Bowl party. The removable trays are dishwasher safe. This snack helmet is available in both the Rams and Bengals style.

Wear this shirt and look extra FAN-tastic while you sing the Bengals fight song. "Touchdown Bengals, get some points upon that board and win a game for Cincinnati!"

The Los Angeles Rams are the current favorite (-200) to win Super Bowl LVI against the Cincinnati Bengals (+170) per Caesars Sportsbook via CBS Sports. Tune in to the big game on Feb. 13 to find out who will win Super Bowl 56.

Who is performing at the 2022 Super Bowl halftime show?

Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Mary J. Blige and Kendrick Lamar are joining musical forces for the very first time for Super Bowl LVI's halftime show.

"This year we are blowing the roof off the concept of collaboration," PepsiCo's senior vice president of media, sports and entertainment, Adam Harter, said in a statement. "Along with the NFL and Roc Nation, we continue to try and push the limits on what fans can expect during the most exciting 12 minutes in music; this year's superstar line-up is sure to deliver a mind-blowing performance."

Where is the Super Bowl this year?

Super Bowl LVI will be played at SoFi stadium located in Inglewood, California. SoFi stadium is home to the Rams and the Chargers.

Hosting a game day party for Super Bowl LVI? Here are some watch-party essentials you might need.

No matter what stream of the game you're watching, this 55-inch Samsung QLED lets you see the game in upscaled 4K resolution, thanks to its machine-based learning AI. The TV is also compatible with most voice assistants.

Enjoy 3D virtual surround sound and a built-in center speaker that delivers enhanced dialogue, so you never miss a word with this Samsung soundbar. The included subwoofer offers powerful bass. This soundbar is easily connected to your TV with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or HDMI. You can combine it with other Samsung speakers to create a complete surround-sound system.

Like the Instant Pot Duo Plus, the Instant Pot Pro can be used for pressure cooking, slow cooking, rice cooking, sous vide cooking, sautéing, sterilizing, yogurt making, warming and steaming. But the Pro does the Duo Plus one better, and adds a 10th function: cake baking.

There are 28 program settings for essential meals, and five programmable settings for your own favorite recipes. This model has an upgraded gentle steam release switch with a diffusing cover, to reduce noise and prevent splashing on your countertop.

With a 4.7-star rating on Amazon based on more than 5,800 reviews, the lightweight Cosori is popular air fryer. It's available in four colors and 3.7- and 5.8-quart sizes, with 11 one-touch presets and 13 cooking functions.

Cozy up to watch the Super Bowl in this bean bag chair that comes in two colors. It has a built-in handle that makes it easy to move.
• None The biggest and best deals on TVs ahead of the Super Bowl
• None Level up your TV audio: The best soundbar deals you can get before the Super Bowl
• None Where to buy face masks online after CDC updates COVID Omicron variant guidelines
• None Peloton, ClassPass, Obe Fitness: Which fitness subscriptions are worth the money?
• None 10 running shoes for the new runner