CBS Essentials is created independently from the CBS News staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.

On Feb. 13, the Los Angeles Rams will take on the Cincinnati Bengals for the title of Super Bowl LVI champions at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California.

Rams fans, it has only been two years since the Rams' 2020 Super Bowl title, but your team is back for another chance at Super Bowl glory. It's time to show your love for the Los Angeles Rams and show off your best royal blue and gold. We found some of the finest Rams gear the internet has to offer. We're not just talking official Rams T-shirts and hats. We also found Rams kitchen items, toys, footwear, accessories and more.

Before you slip into something sporty, there are a few more things you're going to need before the big game: Is your TV ready? Samsung just put its best TVs for watching sports on sale ahead of the Super Bowl. And if it's time to level up your TV audio, these are the best soundbar deals you can get right now. What's your seating situation like? Check out these bean bags and other easy seating so everyone can be comfortable during the game. You'll also need easy, impressive food to order for your Super Bowl party -- and an airfryer or an Instant Pot to keep it all warm.

Keep scrolling to shop your Super Bowl game day outfit.

This classic Rams T-shirt will let everyone know what team you're rooting for. The pre-shrunk tee runs up to a 2XL.

This T-shirt is a great option for people who want to look sporty, but not too sporty. The tee runs up to a 2XL.

Rooting for the Rams' defensive tackle? You can proudly wear his name and number on this jersey.

Show your love for the Rams all over your body, legs included. These comfortable joggers feature a wide elastic waistband and two inseam side pockets. They currently run up to an XL.

This hat will make a great memento for when the Los Angeles Rams battle the Cincinnati Bengals at Super Bowl LVI. The adjustable hat features a back velcro closure.

Stay cozy during the Super Bowl. These waffle-knit slippers have a soft, memory-foam interior and a gripped outsole. These slippers are available in sizes 7 to 14.

These Rams knives are almost too cool to use. They make the perfect Super Bowl utensils for carving meats, slicing baguettes and cutting bits of cheese for your Super Bowl charcuterie spread.

Can your kid toss the ball like Matthew Stafford? Buy this youth-sized Rams football and find out.

This NFL plastic snack helmet will be the most festive snack bowl at your Super Bowl party. The removable trays are dishwasher safe.

Show your love for the Rams with a sweet pair of heart-shaped earrings. These dangly earrings are made with hypoallergenic fish hook backings.
• None Here's how to watch the 2022 Super Bowl LVI
• None The biggest and best deals on TVs ahead of the Super Bowl
• None Level up your TV audio: The best soundbar deals you can get before the Super Bowl
• None Easy, impressive food to order for your Super Bowl party
• None Samsung just put its best TVs for watching sports on sale ahead of the Super Bowl