Gov. J.B. Pritzker issued a disaster declaration for the entire state Tuesday as a massive winter storm was poised to sock parts of the Chicago area with up to a foot of snow.

A winter storm warning for the south suburbs and northwest Indiana will be in effect from 8 p.m. Tuesday through 6 p.m. Wednesday, with up to 12 inches expected in some areas.

The warning covers southern and central Cook County, most of Will County, all of DuPage, Kendall, Grundy and LaSalle counties and, in Indiana, Lake and Porter counties, according to the National Weather Service.

Some parts of central Illinois could get as much as 15 inches as the storm moves across Peoria, Bloomington and Kankakee and into Indiana, the weather service said.

In the Chicago area, rain will change to snow Tuesday evening, ramping up to about an inch of snow per hour after midnight through early Wednesday afternoon in some areas, forecasters said.

In declaring a disaster before the storm hit, Pritzker deployed 1,800 trucks to plow and treat roads throughout the state, and activated 130 Illinois National Guard members to help any motorists who might end up stranded in the whiteout conditions.

“On the ground, all state assets stand ready to assist,” Pritzker said at a Springfield news conference. “I encourage everyone to do what you can to stay safe: listen to local authorities to stay up to date with the latest conditions in your community and make sure your household has essentials.”

The massive snow system, dubbed “Winter Storm Landon” by forecasters, had already prompted state legislators to cancel much of the legislative session this week because the snow was expected to make travel “difficult, if not impossible” in central Illinois, according to the weather service.

Pritzker also had to change plans for his “State of the State” budget address, which will be held at the Old State Capitol building in Springfield and livestreamed online, instead of delivered in front of the entire General Assembly in person as originally planned.

Scott Swinford, deputy director of the state Emergency Management Agency, estimated it could be the worst snow storm to hit the state since 2011, the infamous blizzard that left hundreds of motorists stalled out on Lake Shore Drive.

Or it could be a standard Illinois snowstorm.

“We are working off a range, so it’s possible that we get 6 inches of snow, it’s possible we get 16 inches of snow,” Swinford said. “We are planning for the worst and and hoping for the best.”

For the Chicago area, around 6 inches is expected for areas north of Interstate 80 and up to 11 inches for areas south of I-80. There is an “elevated snow risk” on Thursday, with the largest accumulations southeast of Interstate 55.

“If you don’t have to travel, please stay home,” Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle said Tuesday afternoon at a separate news conference. “The easiest way to avoid the dangers of the storm is to be inside.”

Preckwinkle encouraged those who can work remotely to do so. “For everyone else working or commuting during this storm, we’re doing all we can to make your commute safer,” she said.

If people do need to drive during the storm, Nate Rosenberry, assistant superintendent of the county’s Department of Transportation and Highways, encouraged motorists to have at least a half tank of gas in their car and a fully charged phone as well as emergency supplies, including a shovel, road salt, water and snacks, extra winter gear and blankets.

This week’s snowfall is expected to be followed by frigid conditions, with temperatures predicted to drop into single digits.

About two dozen warming centers across Cook County will be open for people who lack adequate heating. A full list of opened warming centers can be found at CookCountyEmergencyManagement.org or Chicago.gov.

Officials reminded residents not to use their stove to warm their homes nor should people bring gas or charcoal grills indoors, which can emit poisonous odorless gasses.

If using space heaters, don’t leave them unattended and keep them away from loose fabrics like drapes.

Bill Barnes, executive director of the county’s Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, also had a message for pet owners: “If it’s too cold out there for you, it’s likely too cold for the pet as well.”

“As we’re staring down this storm, it’s important to anticipate what’s coming. So please take the time to put together a plan for you, your family, for your pets, so that you have food and water for the next five days in case you lose power,” Barnes said.

Dr. Trevor Lewis, an emergency medicine specialist at Cook County Health, warned of the possibilities of frostbite or hyperthermia in the sub-zero temperatures. He recommends wearing several warm layers if one has to go outside.

As for shoveling snow, Dr. Lewis recommended pushing snow instead of lifting it and taking frequent breaks.

“The problem is when you’re shoveling heavy snow, your blood pressure will spike, your heart rate spikes and you have less blood flow to the heart. This is a deadly combination,” Dr. Lewis said. “We see a large amount of heart attacks during this period of time. Be smart.”