After over 40 years in the public eye with an appropriated Jewish last name, does Whoopi Goldberg think an “oops, sorry!” is going to cut it?

Goldberg created a media firestorm on Monday when she said that the Holocaust wasn’t about race but about “man’s inhumanity to man.”

She also said that the Holocaust was just two groups of white people. “Well, this is white people doing it to white people. So, this is y’all go fight amongst yourselves,” said Goldberg.

It all began when the Coven began to discuss a Tennessee school board’s decision to remove the Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel “Maus” from the 8th-grade language arts curriculum citing concerns over language and nudity. The book is by a Jewish graphic artist who followed his parents’ experiences in Poland in the 1940s from antisemitism to Auschwitz. The Nazis are depicted as cats and the Jewish people as mice.

While the termagants on the panel had their hair on fire that the book was “banned” they are actually incorrect on that. It has not been banned, it has been removed from the language arts curriculum list for one grade in junior high, but is still available in school libraries in the district. But of course, nuance is lost on these dunderheads.

We all know that “The View” is basically shrieking harpy ideology porn for leftwing wine moms and aging feminists who sit alone with their cats, but this clip is truly something else.

GOLDBERG: Well also, if we’re going to do this, then let’s be truthful about it because the Holocaust isn’t about race.

GOLDBERG: No. It’s not about race.

GOLDBERG: It’s not about race. It’s not about race.

BEHAR: What is it about?

GOLDBERG: It’s about man’s inhumanity to man. That’s what it’s about.

NAVARRO: It’s about going after Jews and Gypsies and Romas —

GOLDBERG: But these are two white groups of people. How do we —

BEHAR: Well, they went after black people too.

HAINES: They did not see them as white though.

GOLDBERG: But you’re missing the point! You’re missing the point. The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley. Let’s talk about it for what it is. It’s how people treat each other. It’s a problem. It doesn’t matter if you are black or white because black, white, Jews, Italians, everybody eats each other.

You’ve gotta love that Whoopi is weighing in on the way a school board in Tennessee is handling a book on a significant event in history that she clearly doesn’t comprehend in the slightest.

Here’s the full clip of the idiots on parade:

Before we go any further, let’s not forget who this woman is. Whoopi Goldberg was born Caryn Elaine Johnson.

Goldberg has claimed that she “feels” just as Jewish as she feels black. She said that her name “Goldberg” was as much a part of her family and heritage “as being black.”

In discussing her name and background, she told the Jewish Chronicle in 2011, “I just know I am Jewish. I practise nothing. I don’t go to temple, but I do remember the holidays. Religion is a lot of work, it’s exhausting. So I keep it simple, I have a pretty good relationship with God. We talk.'”

However, Goldberg has been genetically tested which revealed her roots are in Guinea-Bissau in Western Africa and she has no connection to any Jewish ancestry whatsoever. Despite this, she has been using a Jewish surname as her stage name for her entire career.

The Washington Examiner’s Senior Editor Seth Mandel blasted her by paraphrasing her defense of director and fugitive Roman Polanski for his drugging and sodomizing a 13-year old girl as not “rape-rape.”

The Daily Wire’s Ben Shapiro had a thread on anti-semitism on the left that is well worth the read.

As a very prominent Orthodox Jew, he continued to tweet about Goldberg’s insane claims.

The CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, Johnathan Greenblatt, corrected Goldberg on Twitter.

Which is interesting since the new definition of racism that the organization just adopted means that the Nazis weren’t being racist against the Jews.

After being lambasted and trending on Twitter most of the day, Goldberg issued a statement apologizing.

Whoopi Goldberg is trying to calm the firestorm because she’s in the center of it.

She then appeared on Colbert’s show to discuss repirsing her role in the new Star Trek series “Picard”, but of course she had to address this massive controversy.

Goldberg begins by saying that as a black woman, race is all about skin color to her.

She then doubles-down and exposes her own bigotry insisting that the Holocaust wasn’t about racism and repeating that it was white people attacking white people.

When Colbert pushed back and said that the Nazis would say it’s about race, Goldberg says that the Nazis lied.

Golderg is upset that people are calling her antisemitic for her antisemitism. Weird that.

‘It upset a lot of people, which was never ever ever my intention,’ Goldberg said. ‘People were very angry, and said no, we are a race. ‘I felt differently. I respect everything everyone is saying to me. ‘I am very upset that people misunderstood what I was saying. ‘And because of it they are saying I am anti-Semitic, and denying the Holocaust, and all these other things that would never occur to me to do. I thought we were having a discussion about race, which everyone is having.’ Goldberg, who is well known for her provocative and controversial comments, admitted to Colbert she ‘did a lot of harm to myself’ with her Holocaust remarks. ‘People decided I was a certain way. And I’m not,’ she insisted. ‘And I’m torn up people see me that way. ‘This is my thought process and I will work hard not to think that way again.’

 Source: Daily Mail

Should she be forgiven?

She has vilified all right-wingers as racist, so maybe not. Perhaps she should be canceled for her bigotry.

For four years she refused to acknowledge that Donald Trump was president of the United States because she said that he was a racist and misogynist. Now she wants a pass for this blatant anti-semitism that appears to be a pretty big problem in certain segments of the African American population in the United States if you look at hate crimes against Jews in America.

Anti-semitism is rampant in leftism, anyway.

Whoopi Goldberg took on a Jewish name because she thought it would help her succeed in Hollywood.

Don’t be like the fake Jewish woman.

Check out these Jewish women in the Bible who did some pretty amazing things for God, and use their lives as an example instead.

In Doug Giles’ latest book, Biblical Badasses: The Women, Giles spotlights ten epic ladies who did awesome things for God with the odds severely stacked against them. These girls weren’t your typical church ladies. They were holy movers and shakers who upset hell with their God-honoring, faith-filled, lives. Giles’ unique take on these terrific women makes the scripture come alive. This book is real, raw, relevant, and irreverent. Giles’ prayer is that after reading, Biblical Badasses: The Women, not only will your noggin be filled with these amazing tales of high and lows from real women who rocked in a hard place, via the power of God, but that you will get off your butt, quit pursuing stupidity, start chasing down your high calling and at the end of your life, you too, like the holy femme fatales featured herein, will have left a massive scar on Satan’s haggard backside.

Get your copy of Biblical Badasses: The Women today!