Biden, Pelosi, and Schumer have been pushing ahead as though they had a massive majority. Would they be so bold in their jackboot tactics if there was substantial evidence of their ‘win’ being tainted?

That is, after all, what the Stop the Steal rally was trying to figure out — was the win Joe Biden bragged about actually tainted?

It was an effort to ascertain the validity of electors from certain deciding battleground states, and to make that the rules on the books were properly followed. If those rules were not followed, disputed electors could be invalidated and Congress would use a Constitutional mechanism other than the Electoral College to declare a winner. It’s worth remembering that Pennsylvania’s court just ruled that mail-in ballots used there were unconstitutional, for example.

Because of how events of that day played out, we never got to the point where the same act of formally challenging electors — as had been done by Democrats in several previous elections — would have proceeded in an orderly fashion, and we never got to hear the proposal of a 10-day commission to review the grievances and report back about whether they appeared valid or not in the various battleground states.

Despite Democrats challenging virtually every Republican electoral win — and even giving Stacy Abrams a seat at the DNC governor’s panel in 2020 — the language of Nazi Germany has been used to smear anyone raising concerns about the Most Secure Election In History™.

They have called it ‘the Big Lie’. But what if the accusation is just another example of Democrats reflexively accusing others to deflect attention from their own malfeasance?

Dinesh D’Souza did some investigative reporting and has come up with some hard evidence that Democrats will have trouble explaining away. Evidence suggests that some, or most, of those battleground state electors really should have been invalidated.

Here’s the trailer for his investigative film:

It uses cell phone location data and security footage to catch bad actors redhanded.

‘This one mule made 53 trips to 20 drop-boxes. He’s not alone. We tracked 2000 mules making multiple ballot drops.’

‘A coordinated ring of illegal vote harvesting in all the key states where the election was decided.’

You mean, drop boxes? The thing Democrats want MORE of — and want to nuke the filibuster so they can get it? That sounds important.

It’s coming this spring. We can hardly wait to see the left tie themselves in knots in their attempts to discredit it.

Because Dinesh is no lightweight. If he’s putting this film out there for the public, we can be sure he’s got the receipts to back up his claims.

And wouldn’t it be interesting to see Biden’s team playing defense in that ‘threat to democracy’ conversation.

Psalms of War: Prayers That Literally Kick Ass is a collection, from the book of Psalms, regarding how David rolled in prayer. I bet you haven’t heard these read, prayed, or sung in church against our formidable enemies — and therein lies the Church’s problem. We’re not using the spiritual weapons God gave us to waylay the powers of darkness. It might be time to dust them off and offer ‘em up if you’re truly concerned about the state of Christ’s Church and of our nation.

Also included in this book, Psalms of War, are reproductions of the author’s original art from his Biblical Badass Series of oil paintings.

This is a great gift for the prayer warriors. Real. Raw. Relevant.