Now we know why Canadians are using hockey sticks as flagpoles.

Trucks began arriving in Canada’s Capital on Friday. The protest officially began on Saturday.

While some trucks have gone and others are on their way to replace them, it seems that the protesters are finding new and innovative ways to entertain themselves.

The streets around Parliament Hill have been closed off to traffic, and it appears that some truckers have found a use for those hockey sticks.

A game of road hockey was being played in front of the Supreme Court building just down the street from Parliament.

On the first day, there were some negative reports about the protest — two or three people were spotted with racist flags who have still not been identified as well as some pretty boorish behavior.

Especially horrendous were the reports that a few people were spotted dancing on top of the tomb of the unknown soldier at the War Memorial close to Parliament Hill. A man who fought in World War I is entombed there. That sort of behavior is never, ever acceptable.

It seemed like everyone in the Canadian Media was pearl-clutching that a statue of Canadian icon Terry Fox was draped with a flag and dressed as a protester on Saturday.

By the way, while the Canadian media was decrying the “defacing” of the Terry Fox statue, they seem to have suddenly rediscovered the word which was all but forgotten when left-wing protesters burned down churches, beheaded a statue of Queen Victoria in Winnipeg, smashed statues of Mary and Jesus, as well as painted and toppled statues of former Prime Ministers and famous Canadians throughout 2020 and 2021. Weird, that.

But that small handful of agitators on Saturday when the protest was at its peak has died down was not representative of what the vast majority of protesters were doing at all.

Here is what the Corporate Media won’t cover:

Does it get much more Canadian than that?

Check out ClashRadio for more wit and wisdom from ClashDaily’s Big Dawg. While you’re at it, here’s his latest book:

Much of the Left loathes masculinity and they love to paint Jesus as a non-offensive bearded woman who endorses their agenda. This book blows that nonsense all to hell. From the stonking laptop of bestselling author, Doug Giles, comes a new book that focuses on Jesus’ overt masculine traits like no other books have heretofore. It’s informative, bold, hilarious, and scary. Giles has concluded, after many years of scouring the scripture that, If Masculinity Is ‘Toxic’, Call Jesus Radioactive.