A couple of excellent insights into why political reporting is so inaccurate

The next time you see punditry based on anecdotes (the NYTimes’ infamous “Cletus safaries” are a perfect example), remember this:

And Yair Rosenberg in The Atlantic offers an antidote to Twitter. I bolded the last sentence.

One of the things I love most about our smart, compassionate president is that when he sees that one path forward is blocked, he finds another. Just what one hopes for in a leader.

The Biden administration just increased pay for 50,000 military base workers

Yes, most of us already know that Biden increased the minimum wage for 70,000 federal employees, but we may not have realized the impact this will have on families living on military bases. Many of these workers are spouses trying to raise families on military salaries of under $20,000 per year. Even with stipends for uniforms, food, and housing, many military families are struggling, especially when a soldier is sent to another location and the spouse loses their job.

Poll: Arizona Senator Kyrsten Sinema Set to Be Unseated by Possible Challenger Ruben Gallego in 2024 Primary Landslide

Yup, Sinema is toast. Let’s hope other DINOs also go down in 2022.

Teachers, social workers, firefighters, members of the military, and other government and nonprofit workers are seeing their student debt wiped clean thanks to the Biden administration’s overhaul of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. The program was supposed to make public service work more appealing by offering the promise that, after 10 years of payments, people’s student loans would be forgiven. Instead, virtually no one qualified—just over 16,000 people as of fall 2021. That has changed. Around 70,000 public servants have now gotten nearly $5 billion in relief, and in the end, up to 550,000 of them could get help. This change comes because, after years of rejections because people had been paying on loans from the wrong program, or had paid a little late or submitted payments that were off by as little as a few cents—rejections that often came after people had paid for 10 years in good faith, without being told they weren’t qualifying—the Department of Education put into place a temporary fix. It allows people to consolidate all of their loans into eligible ones and submit a form to get their payments to this point—including the ones that would have previously been considered ineligible—to count toward forgiveness. That’s 70,000 people who, after years of working for the public good and faithfully paying their loans, have gotten relief. The joy is palpable when people post about it on social media—but also the surprise that the system is now working on this front. Holy shit. I reapplied for the public service loan forgiveness (10 years at nonprofit) since they loosened the rules. They denied at first, but I just got noticed that all my med school loans are forgiven. In shock. — Lee Dossett, MD (@ldossett) January 20, 2022

And another DKos diary I definitely don’t want you to miss:

Joe Trippi on an optimistic vision for 2022 and the pro-democracy movement

From Daily Kos, quoted from The Brief:

Good news from my corner of the world

Inspired by nationwide trend, Eugene [OR] Starbucks first in state to petition for union status

The kids are definitely all right! I’m so proud to have these young environmental heroes in my own city!!

BTW, the article also points out that the usual justification given for highway expansion — easing congestion — is bullshit: “...research overwhelmingly shows that adding road capacity ultimately draws more vehicles and increases back-ups.”

Every other Wednesday, 15-year-old Adah Crandall catches the bus from her high school in Northeast Portland to spend the early evening with a group of friends outside the Oregon Department of Transportation’s downtown headquarters. ...Since April 2021, she and her crew have been protesting the agency’s plans to widen a slew of highways that could increase CO2 emissions by tens of thousands of tons per year. “People don’t think of ODOT as a villain in the climate crisis, but they don’t realize that 40% of our state’s carbon emissions come from transportation, come from the freeways that ODOT is trying to expand,” Crandall told a reporter at a protest in June. ✂️ ...the purpose of Youth Vs. ODOT, as the campaign is called, is always the same: These teens and 20-somethings are determined to connect the existential threat of climate change clearly and inextricably with road expansion. As far as organizers know, the effort is unprecedented in the U.S. in its sustained single-mindedness. It also could be effective: On Jan 18, the Federal Highway Administration rescinded a key approval of the controversial highway widening that’s been a prime target of the young protesters, the Rose Quarter Improvement Project along Portland’s Interstate 5. FWHA also requested that the state redo its environmental study. Youth Vs. ODOT’s campaign is well timed. Over the next five years, transportation departments across the U.S. will receive some $350 billion in federal highway funding — more than has ever been disbursed — from President Joe Biden’s Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. States have flexibility to spend a lot of that money on public transit, bike lanes, electric vehicles and other lower-carbon choices. But there has been little indication — even from progressive governors — that the vast majority will be used for anything other than roads.

And here’s more on the FWHA’s decision to rescind its approval for the I-5 expansion:

U.S. Bureau of Prisons finalizes rules for early release program that led to Oregon issues

The writer buried the lede, so I fixed that. 😉

Good news from around the nation

In rare move, U.S. judge rejects plea agreement by Ahmaud Arbery's murderers

Students Are Walking Out Over COVID

When the adults fail to act, students step up.

This month, teens across the country have been adding their voices to the debate over in-person schooling, which has so far been dominated by adults—by parents, teachers, and politicians. Last week, students from more than 20 schools in New York City participated in a walkout, and students in Boston, Chicago, and Seattle did the same. Many of them feel frustrated and unsafe. Like teachers, “we’re the ones encountering the problem every single day because we’re coming to school and we’re around a bunch of people, some who don’t wear masks [and] some who do,” says Gianna Pizarro, a 15-year-old sophomore at Burncoat High School, in Worcester, Massachusetts who participated in a walkout. ✂️ The high-school students organizing walkouts aren’t proposing that their schools go remote indefinitely, but rather that schools and students be able to do so temporarily, while case counts are higher than at any previous point in the pandemic. They’re concerned for their own safety, but also worried about bringing the virus home to a family member. ...students have been on their own in determining whether they’ve been exposed. They effectively have had to work as their own informal contact-tracing teams, asking around about peers’ test results and monitoring social media for indications of COVID cases. ✂️ In some cities, students’ actions seem to have caught administrators’ attention. The chancellor of New York City’s schools offered to meet with student organizers after their walkout last week. So far, though, one of the most reliable effects of a walkout seems to be that it begets more walkouts. Students I spoke with said that their walkouts were inspired by the organizing they saw earlier this month in New York City, Oakland, and Chicago.

To Bargain With Their Landlords, Renters Form Tenant Unions

Apologies to linking to an article in WSJ (🤢), but it’s important news.

Spotify and Joe Rogan Respond to Complaints About Covid Misinformation

The usual weak sauce from an online platform behaving badly. I bolded the last sentence because it says more about Spotify than Ek’s entire statement.

From The New York Times:

Here’s a fun and clever method for dealing with CRT loonies (🎩 to Tara the Antisocial Social Worker for posting this tweet in a comment on OHD’s terrific Tweets of the Week on Sunday):

Good news from around the world

WCK Heads to Tonga with Food and Supplies

There seem to be no obstacles too challenging for Chef José Andrés and his heroic team!

Former foes Israel and Jordan work together to combat energy and water scarcity

Plans were announced for ‘fixing factories’ in the UK

I hope this trend reaches the U.S. too.

This would be a good message to send to your Congresscritters.

I consider this good news because it’s always good to catch an entitled asshole in a lie that’s likely to get him into further trouble. Couldn’t happen to a nicer guy.

And now Rafa has the record that Djokovic was chasing! Pure karma.

Words fail me. Prepare to be amazed.

This could be the start of the end for drug-resistant bacteria

This story could have been filed under politics or national news, but I like emphasizing that it’s a scientific study. And anything that reinforces the argument for direct cash payments to people suffering from poverty is definitely good news.

From The New York Times:

‘Strange metal’ may be the future for a more energy efficient world

Tiny New Sensor – That Could Fit in a Smartphone – Makes the Invisible Visible

These sustainably powered homes can raise families out of poverty

Aside from being effective, the structure looks like a sculpture!

Peelsphere is a leather-alternative biomaterial made from fruit waste and algae

Good news for and about animals

Brought to you by Rosy, Nora, and Rascal.

Rosy just looooooves this husky/human collaboration. And I confess it’s become an ear worm (but not an annoying one) ever since I first heard it.

BTW, the South African musician who calls himself The Kiffness does lots of these collaborations.

Of course Nora chose the delightful backstory of Willow for her contribution today!

First kitty: Willow Biden, new White House cat, hails from Volant, Pennsylvania, farm

BTW, Rick Telesz is now a candidate for Congress, running against Rethug Mike Kelly in Pennsylvania’s 16th district. Kelly is the asshole who brought the suit against no-excuse mail-in voting in PA, which the Commonwealth Court just ruled unconstitutional.

As Jill Biden addressed a crowd of Democratic supporters on Rick Telesz's Lawrence County farm on the eve of the 2020 presidential election, a gray, shorthair tabby cat hopped on the back of the makeshift stage and pranced in front of her with its tail standing tall, catching the attention of the now-first lady. The crowd broke out in laughter. "She was speaking and she stopped, acknowledged the cat, but the cat continued to walk down and jumped and sat on a chair in the front row, right in front of her," Telesz recalled... "Even after she got done talking, she made some comments toward the cat." A few days after the election, a Democratic party official phoned Telesz. "The gentleman says, 'I don't know how to ask you this, Rick.' And I thought, 'Oh boy, I'm in trouble now,'" Telesz said. "But he goes, 'Dr. Jill Biden was wanting to know if you would allow her to adopt that cat.'” ✂️ [Telesz had voted for Trump in 2016 but then changed parties and was featured in campaign ads for Biden.] Telesz's veterinarian had joked with [him] that he would one day end up "in D.C.," he said. "When I got the call asking if they could have the cat, I called my vet and I said, 'doc, guess what? I got the call from D.C.' He got all excited, asks 'where are you going?' I said, 'No, they don't want me. They want the cat.'”

Rascal, being a fan of snuggles himself, chose this sweet story of a Java sparrow in Hawaii who loves to snuggle with the woman who rescued him when he was a tiny fledgling.

And because we all love butterflies, my co-editors wanted me to share some great news about Monarchs:

Amazing Quarter Million Monarchs in 2021 Western Migration – Up From Just 2,000 the Year Before

newsletters.theatlantic.com/...Why I’m Buying the Ida B. Wells Doll. Black scholar and author Imani Perry explains why “I, a 49-year-old Black leftist feminist intellectual, will be buying that very cute doll.”

www.washingtonpost.com/…Why did Spotify choose Joe Rogan over Neil Young? Hint: It’s not a music company. “This isn’t really a story about Rogan or Young. It’s a story about Spotify. And, despite public perception, Spotify isn’t a music company. It’s a tech company looking to maximize profits.”

www.optimistdaily.com/… The psychological reason we’re so taken with Wordle. “The fact that we are all trying to solve the same puzzle brings us together.”

www.theatlantic.com/...What If We Just Stopped Being So Available? “With the mass adoption of email and smartphones, ...the ‘acceptable’ window of response time has gotten much smaller. Someone could conceivably apologize for their delay when responding in the afternoon to an email sent that morning.” A valuable perspective.

aeon.co/...English is not normal. An eye-opening and charmingly written piece by a professor of linguistics at Columbia. Did you know that “hickory, dickory, dock” comes from the words meaning “eight, nine, ten” in Celtic??

A tip of the hat to 2thanks for creating this handy info sheet for all Gnusies new and old!

Morning Good News Roundups at 7 x 7: These Gnusies lead the herd at 7 a.m. ET, 7 days a week:

Another inspiring world-wide collaboration from Playing for Change:

Thanks to all of you for your smarts, your hearts, and

your faithful attendance at our daily Gathering of the Herd.