President Joe Biden on Tuesday sketched out more of the qualities he is looking for in a Supreme Court nominee – saying he wants someone with 'character,' while declaring his own belief that the Constitution is an 'evolving' document.

Biden made the comments as he sat down in the Oval Office with Senate Judiciary Chairman Richard Durbin of Illinois and top committee Republican Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa – who was key backer for former President Donald Trump.

Biden served with both men when he served on and chaired the Senate Judiciary Committee, as he reminded them in comments about their time together – following Republican pushback against his vow to nominate a black woman to the bench.

'I'm looking for a candidate of character with the qualities of a judge in terms of being courteous to folks before them and treating people with respect, as well as a judicial philosophy that is more one that suggests that there are unenumerated rights in the Constitution,' Biden said.

The landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade decision rests on a right to privacy that is not specifically mentioned in the Constitution, but has become a key marker for liberals who fear the 6-3 conservative court is on the verge of rolling back abortion rights.

Biden only alluded to the subject – although he mentioned the 9th Amendment which states that specifically enumerated rights 'shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.' It has been used to justify both abortion and voting rights.

'And all the amendments mean something – including the 9th Amendment,' Biden underlined.

His comment about an 'evolving' Constitution came before Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell's office confirmed the two men had spoken, and staked out an opposing philosophy. 'The Leader believes the cornerstone of a nominee’s judicial philosophy should be a commitment to originalism and textualism,' his office said in a brief statement. 'He emphasized the importance of a nominee who believes in judicial independence and will resist all efforts by politicians to bully the Court or to change the structure of the judicial system' – in a line aimed at Democrats calling to change the composition of the 6-3 conservative court.

Biden also spoke about the role of the Senate, where Democrats can push through his selection but where Republicans have some opportunities to obstruct.

'And I intend to take this decision and get it to my colleagues by the end of the month,' he said, sticking to an earlier timeframe he has announced to nominate a replacement for retiring Justice Stephen Breyer.

'That's my hope. And I'm looking forward to your advice and how to proceed and how the hearings will be conducted and the like,' he said – amid calls by leading Democrats to move ahead at a pace as rapid as the ones Republicans used to install Justice Amy Coney Barrett on the bench.

'The Constitution says advise and consent – advice and consent. And I'm serious when I say I want the advice of the Senate as well as consent,' he said – in language presidents often use to soothe senators who get to vote on the nomination.

Biden also called the Constitution an 'evolving' document, despite the growing strength of strict constructionists on the court.

'And you know, it's there's always a renewed national debate every time we nominate – any president nominates justice, because the Constitution is always evolving slightly in terms of additional rights,' he said.

Biden did not specifically mention the other criteria he has spelled out – that he will nominate a black woman for the post. His statement, which Biden also made on the campaign trail, has drawn backlash from some Republicans, including Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz, who called the commitment 'offensive' and 'actually an insult to black women.'

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki hit back when asked about that comment Tuesday.

She pointed to Trump's comments about naming a woman to receive Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg after she died weeks before the November elections.

'It will be a woman,' Trump said at a September 2020 campaign rally.

Said Psaki: 'Not only were there no complaints about choosing a nominee from a specific demographic, from the same corners, but there was widespread praise of now Justice Barrett on those grounds.'

She said Cruz 'praised her on these grounds' at her confirmation hearing in the Senate, and quoted him calling her 'an amazing role model for little girls.'

Psaki did not confirm a New York Times report that former Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.) would serve as 'sherpa' to help guide the nominee.