White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki laid into Sen. Ted Cruz on Tuesday, calling him out as a hypocrite for backing President Trump's promise to nominate a woman to the Supreme Court but dismissing President Biden's pledge to pick a black woman as 'offensive.'

On his podcast, 'Verdict with Ted Cruz,' the Texas senator said Biden's vow sent a message to other Americans that they were 'ineligible' because of gender and race.

Psaki was ready with a response when she was asked about it during her regular briefing.

'Just over a year ago, the previous president also promised to select a woman for the Supreme Court,' she said, looking at her notes.

'Not only were there no complaints about choosing a nominee from a specific demographic, from the same corners, but there was widespread praise of now Justice Barrett on those grounds with Republican lawmakers widely highlighting that they thought this was positive for women in America.'

'So take Senator Cruz himself, he had no objection to Donald Trump promising he'd nominated a woman in 2020. Repeat: No objection at all.'

Amy Coney Barrett was confirmed in October 2020, hurried through by Republicans with one eye on the looming presidential election.

In fact, continued Psaki, Cruz had praised her.

'During her confirmation hearing, Senator Cruz said: 'I think you're an amazing role model for little girls. What advice would you give little girls?"'

And she said President Reagan did the same thing with a campaign pledge that he later honored, saying it 'symbolises the unique American opportunity.'

'The president's view is that after 230 years of the Supreme Court being in existence, the fact that not a single black woman has served on the Supreme Court is a failure in the process - not a failure or a lack of qualified black women to serve as Supreme Court justices,' she concluded.

Biden is weighing a list of potential candidates to replace retiring liberal Justice Stephen Breyer, who announced he was stepping down last week after nearly three decades on the nation's highest court.

Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris earlier hosted Senate Judiciary Chairman Dick Durbin and Ranking Member Chuck Grassley in the Oval Office to discuss the the vacancy.

'The Constitution says "advise and consent, advice and consent,"' Biden said.

'And I'm serious when I say I want the advice of the Senate as well as the consent.'

'The fact that he's willing to make a promise at the outset that it must be a black woman – I gotta say, that's offensive,' he said.

'Black women are, what, six percent of the U.S. population? He's saying to 94% of Americans, 'I don't give a damn about you – you are ineligible

'And he's also saying – it's actually an insult to black women.

'If he came and said, 'I'm going to put the best jurist on the court', and he looked at a number of people and he ended up nominating a black woman, he could credibly say, "OK I'm nominating the person who's most qualified."'

Cruz also claimed on his podcast episode that Biden could nominate Harris to the post.

But the White House has already shrugged off that idea, saying that Biden intends to run for reelection in 2024 with Harris on his ticket.

But Cruz says Biden could do it just to get rid of her in the White House.

'I think there is a chance they name Kamala to the court, in part because they can't stand her,' Cruz said.

'One of the virtues of naming her to the court is they get to get her out of the White House and out of – look, the Democratic party is very worried that she's the presumed successor to Joe Biden, because her political negatives are so strong. She's just not very good at this stuff,' Cruz added with a shrug.

'I mean, you've seen the weird video of her with kids,' he said. 'That's almost like a Stepford Wives robotic. It's bizarre.'

'My guess is if Kamala was nominated, it probably would be a 50-50 vote,' Cruz said. 'Maybe she'd pick up a Republican vote. I would not be on the fence. I would be a hell no on Kamala if she were nominated.'

Cruz's name was at one time floated for the Supreme Court before.

Several conservatives have express concern about Biden's promise, warning that he could be overlooking the best person for the job,

But supporters say it will help make the court a better representation of America.

Former congresswoman and 2020 Democratic presidential hopeful Tulsi Gabbard unleashed on President Biden on Monday over his promise to only nominate a black woman.

The Hawaiian military veteran accused Biden of playing 'identity politics' with his pledge to seat the first black female justice -–and said he did the same thing when picking Harris as his running mate.

'Biden chose Harris as his VP because of the color of her skin and sex -- not qualification. She's been a disaster. Now he promises to choose Supreme Court nominee on the same criteria,' Gabbard wrote on Twitter.

She added: 'Identity politics is destroying our country.'

Psaki at her Monday news briefing compared Biden's pledge to Ronald Reagan promising to and then appointing the first female justice.

'There was no such complaint from the voices on the right who are speaking out now,' Psaki said, adding: 'but there's no question in his mind that there is a wealth of qualified, talented black women to choose from.'

She said Biden would be meeting with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Dick Durbin and ranking member Senator Chuck Grassley at the White House on Tuesday to get their advice on a potential pick.

Some of his top candidates reportedly include: DC Circuit Court Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, who Biden elevated to her post last year; district Judge J. Michelle Childs, a federal official in South Carolina who has strong bipartisan support from GOP Senator Lindsey Graham and Democrat Rep. Jim Clyburn, both of whom hail from her state; and Judge Leondra Kruger, an associate justice on California's Supreme Court who twice turned down the position of Solicitor General.

Late last week Republican Senator Roger Wicker heckled Biden's future nominee as an 'affirmative action' hire during an interview.

Trump administration UN Ambassador Nikki Haley posted a January 26 tweet stating 'Would be nice if Pres Biden chose a Supreme Court nominee who was best qualified without a race/gender litmus test.'

And on Sunday, GOP Senator Susan Collins told ABC's This Week that she'd be happy to see a black woman on the court but that Biden was 'politicizing' the judicial nomination process.

'I would welcome the appointment of a Black female to the court. I believe that diversity benefits the Supreme Court. But the way that the president has handled this nomination has been clumsy at best. It adds to the further perception that the court is a political institution like Congress when it is not supposed to be,' Collins said.

Meanwhile, a new poll shows that more than three quarters of Americans would prefer Biden pick the best person for the job rather than fulfilling a campaign promise.

An ABC News/Ipsos survey released Sunday shows 76 percent of respondents preferring Biden 'consider all possible nominees' compared to just 23 percent who said they want him to 'consider only nominees who are Black women, as he has pledged to do.'

Biden's promise even failed to gain much traction among Democrat voters, 54 percent of whom said they wanted the president to find the best person for the role regardless of race. The number is even smaller among nonwhite voters, at 28 percent.

But one unlikely ally the president has is Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who said even his party was making a 'real effort' to find more women and minorities for key spots.

'Put me in the camp of making sure the court and other institutions look like America. You know, we make a real effort as Republicans to recruit women and people of color to make the party look more like America. Affirmative action is picking somebody not as well qualified for past wrongs,' Graham said on CBS News this Sunday.