A new poll shows the electoral struggle facing President Joe Biden, suggesting he is a long way behind possible Republican opponents in Florida - and he wouldn't even beat Hillary Clinton if she ran against him in the state's primary.

The Suffolk University/USA TODAY Network poll published on Tuesday found that only 39 percent of the state's likely voters approve of the job Biden is doing, while 53 percent disapprove.

Former President Donald Trump won Florida in 2020, and Democrats will be targeting the nation's third most populous state - and its 29 electoral college votes - if they want to hold the White House.

But the poll has more gloom for Biden, suggesting that he is vulnerable not just in a general election but in a primary.

Former Democratic nominee Clinton, 74, would win a hypothetical primary matchup by 46 percent to 43 percent, although she would then lose to Gov. Ron DeSantis or Trump by margins of 13 points and seven points, respectively.

'Ironically, this 2024 Florida case study could be the narrative of the 2022 midterms: party nominees, who are strong within their party but less popular among the general electorate, could win their respective party primaries but falter in the general election,' said David Paleologos, director of the Suffolk University Political Research Center in Boston.

Biden fares better in a contest against the two Republicans, but still loses.

Trump would beat him by three points; DeSantis would beat him by eight points, in the survey of 500 likely voters, with a margin of error of +/- 4.4 points.

The poll will tickle Republicans, who have seized on any hint of Clinton making one last run for the White House.

The idea was floated last month in the Wall Street Journal by pollster Doug Schoen and former New York City Council president Andrew Stein.

They said Biden's age, Vice President Kamala Harris's unpopularity and a leadership vacuum in the wider party could combine to catapult Clinton into the frame.

Days later speculation grew when a former senior adviser to Bill Clinton said there was a 'good chance' she would run if Biden lost Congress in the midterms.

Dick Morris said such a failure could see the party turn on Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris.

Having positioned herself as a critic of the party's leftward lurch - reminding the party that it must win in purpleish states as well as blue one - she could be perfectly positioned for a run.

In December, she said the Democratic Party needed to be 'clear eyed' about what wins elections - a tacit warning that its progressive wing risks handing midterm victories to the Republican Party.

She told NBC's Willie Geist last month that Democrats needed candidates who could win in purple states if it was to have a Congress that will 'get things done.'

Her comments reflect divisions in both parties, as centrists grapple with fringes that offer ideological purity and headline generating Twitter accounts.

For Democrats, that means the so-called Squad of progressives - including the likes of Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar.

'I think that it is a time for some careful thinking about what wins elections, and not just in deep blue districts where a democrat and a liberal Democrat or so-called progressive Democrat is going to win,' said Clinton.

The White House insists Biden will run again in 2024, even though that would mean he would be 86 at the end of a second team.

Biden poll numbers are underwater, after a year in office that has seen recordbreaking numbers of migrants arrive at the southern border, no end to the COVID-19 pandemic and a surge in prices.

Some polls have put Biden's approval rating at less than 40 percent.

And party leaders fear the worst for November's upcoming midterm elections.