Former President George W. Bush is jumping into 2022's heated Republican primary races, documents revealed on Monday, opening his pocketbook to two GOP lawmakers caught in his Republican successor Donald Trump's crosshairs.

Campaign finance disclosures show Bush donated to the re-election campaigns of Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the daughter of his former Vice President Dick Cheney, and Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski.

Both establishment Republican legislators are facing primary challenges from candidates endorsed by Trump.

They're two of the highest-profile conservatives targeted by the former president for supporting his impeachment over the Capitol riot.

Filings show Bush donated a total of $5,800 to Cheney last October, the maximum contribution for an individual donor. They were split into two $2,900 payments, one toward Wyoming's general House race and one toward her primary.

In December he gave $2,900 to Murkowski's primary effort.

Both Alaska and Wyoming's primary races take place on August 16.

Bush has donated to Republican candidates in the past -- including Cheney in 2016 -- but it's his first time directing dollars to the Alaska senator.

His brother, former Florida governor and 2016 presidential candidate Jeb Bush, also donated to Cheney's re-election effort in 2021. The younger Bush sibling gave Cheney a total of $1,000 in November.

Despite having donated to Trump-backed candidates in the past, including Texas Rep. Ronny Jackson in 2019 and Missouri Senator Josh Hawley in 2018, Bush appears to have only focused his money on the two anti-Trump lawmakers' races this past year.

They could be seen as a financial rebuke of Trump from a Republican commander-in-chief who previously condemned 'violent extremists' and compared them to foreign terrorists in a thinly-veiled attack on Trump's supporters.

Cheney, one of 10 Republicans in the House who voted to impeach Trump last year, has been a favorite punching bag for the bombastic former president particularly after joining the Democrat-led House select committee investigating the Capitol riot.

Conservative lawyer Harriet Hageman won Trump's endorsement to be Wyoming's lone House representative in September.

She had once been a close ally of Cheney's and an adviser to her short-lived past Senate campaign.

Trump called Cheney a 'disloyal Republican' and a 'warmonger' in his statement endorsing Hageman.

The GOP hopeful's campaign released its own new statement announcing Hageman has raised more than $1 million since announcing her challenge to Cheney.

'Wyoming deserves to be represented by someone who cares about Wyoming, not someone who is consumed by her own personal war with President Trump,' she said in the accompanying statement on her website.

The impressive sum is still dwarfed by Cheney's war chest, which raised more than $7 million last year and left her with roughly $4.7 million on-hand going into 2022.

However, the Wyoming Republican is still likely to face a tough race after her own state party voted to un-recognize her over her with with the Capitol riot committee.

Her harsh criticism of Trump also cost Cheney her spot within House GOP leadership as Republican Conference Chair, which her colleagues voted to take from her and give to pro-Trump Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York.

Meanwhile Trump has denounced Murkowski as 'bad for Alaska' and targeted her Senate seat by backing former state Commissioner of Administration Kelly Tshibaka.

Tshikaba is set to hold a fundraiser at Trump's Mar-a-Lago club on February 10.

She's among the few Senate hopefuls who supports the ex-president's calls for Mitch McConnell to be booted from his powerful position as Senate GOP leader.

Murkowski's campaign is walking into the election year with roughly $4.2 million cash on-hand.

Tshikaba, by comparison, ended 2021 with $634,000 left to spend after raising slightly more than $600,000 in the last quarter.

DailyMail.com has reached out to Murkowski and Cheney's offices for comment.