Senate Democrats on Tuesday unveiled their proposal to make it a lot harder for lawmakers to object to the certification of a presidential election and clarified the role of the vice president in the process.

The legislation was in response to former President Donald Trump's attempt to overthrow the 2020 election, including pushing his Vice President Mike Pence to send back electors from states Joe Biden won - a power Pence did not have.

Among the provisions in the Democrats' legislation, it clarifies that the vice president's role in the process is purely ceremonial.

The 'Vice President has no role in the counting of electoral votes, except to open electoral vote ballots as required by the Constitution,' the legislation states.

The plan also makes it harder for lawmakers to object to the election certification, raising the number of lawmakers to one-third in each chamber and making the threshold to sustain an objection 3/5 of the chamber. Currently it only takes one senator or one House member to object.

Under the proposal from Senate Democrats Angus King, Dick Durbin, and Amy Klobuchar, Senate Republicans would have been unable to force a vote last Jan. 6, meaning the certification process would have been completed very quickly.

Their plan would also require states to appoint their electors based on laws passed before Election Day and move back the deadline to resolve disputes to December 20th to give states more time to handle recounts and other issues before certification of the election by Congress.

The senators called their legislation a 'discussion draft' and said they thought the proposal 'serves as a foundational outline for key reforms that address the shortcomings of the 1887 law.'

Their proposal is separate from that of a bipartisan group of lawmakers working on reforms to the Electoral Count Act of 1887.

That group, which includes 16 senators and is led by Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin and Republican Sen. Susan Collins, is still working on their formal legislation. They met Monday night and plan to reconvene on Friday.

The Democrats' proposal is called the Electoral Count Modernization Act and is an update to the Electoral Count Act of 1887. The 127-year-old law has been criticized as being vague and outdated.

Election law came under a bright spotlight in the wake of the 2020 election, when Trump falsely claimed he was the victor and his supporters stormed the Capitol on January 6th, 2021, to try and stop the electoral college certification.

There are reports Trump pressured legislatures in states won by Biden to send 'alternate' slates of presidential electors to Congress, which the Democratic bill would outlaw.

Trump on Tuesday resumed his criticism of Pence for failing to 'overturn' the election results – and is now saying his former Vice President should be investigated for failing to 'send back' votes in states where Trump was claiming fraud.

Trump fired off comment in a statement from his Save America PAC – a day after a stunning statement where Trump wrote that Pence 'did have the right to change the outcome' and added 'he could have overturned the Election!'

'So pathetic to watch the Unselect Committee of political hacks, liars, and traitors work so feverishly to alter the Electoral College Act so that a Vice President cannot ensure the honest results of the election, when just one year ago they said that “the Vice President has absolutely no right to ensure the true outcome or results of an election,” wrote Trump.

He was referencing the Electoral Count Act, the subject of election reform negotiations.