President Donald Trump on Tuesday resumed his criticism of former Vice President Mike Pence for failing to 'overturn' the election results – and is now saying his former VP should be probed for failing to 'send back' votes in states where Trump was claiming fraud.

Trump fired off comment in a statement from his Save America PAC – a day after a stunning statement where Trump wrote that Pence 'did have the right to change the outcome' and added 'he could have overturned the Election!'

Now, a day after it was revealed that Pence's former chief of staff Marc Short testified before the House Jan. 6th Committee, Trump is calling for an investigation of Pence as well as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who accuses of failing to protect the Capitol.

'So pathetic to watch the Unselect Committee of political hacks, liars, and traitors work so feverishly to alter the Electoral College Act so that a Vice President cannot ensure the honest results of the election, when just one year ago they said that “the Vice President has absolutely no right to ensure the true outcome or results of an election,” wrote Trump. He was referencing the Electoral Count Act, the subject of election reform negotiations.

The law assigns the vice president with duties of overseeing the counting of electoral votes, but lawmakers and scholars have pointed to ambiguities in the law. Trump insisted Pence had the right to refuse to accept votes certified by state officials. Trump and some of his advisors were urging Pence to do just that amid Trump's election overturn effort.

'In other words, they lied, and the Vice President did have this right or, more pointedly, could have sent the votes back to various legislators for reassessment after so much fraud and irregularities were found. If it were sent back to the legislators, or if Nancy Pelosi, who is in charge of Capitol security, had taken my recommendation and substantially increased security, there would have been no “January 6” as we know it!' Trump continued.

'Therefore, the Unselect Committee should be investigating why Nancy Pelosi did such a poor job of overseeing security and why Mike Pence did not send back the votes for recertification or approval, in that it has now been shown that he clearly had the right to do so!'

Trump was following a playbook from his time in the White House, where he demanded investigations of former FBI Director James Comey, former special counsel Robert Mueller and the entire Russia probe even as a team of lawyers probed his campaign ties to Russia.

Trump's attack on his former vice president came after Pence revealed the two men last spoke last summer – even as both men have denied a rift.

It also followed daily revelations about the last days of the Trump administration, after the Jan. 6th committee obtained Trump White House records from the National Archives.

The New York Times reported Tuesday that Trump told lawyer Rudy Giuliani to call the Homeland Security Secretary to tell him to seize voting machines, following earlier reports on a draft executive order to have the Pentagon seize the machines.

The Washington Post reported that the Jan. 6th Committee has received some presidential records that were ripped up and taped back together.

At a Saturday night rally in Texas, Trump suggested he would pardon Jan. 6th rioters if reelected. 'We will treat those people from January 6 fairly. We will treat them fairly,' Trump said. 'And if it requires pardons, we will give them pardons.'

Reps. Adam Kinzinger (Ill.) and Liz Cheney (Wyo.)., the two Republicans on the Jan. 6th Committee, each blasted Trump over his Sunday statement on Pence.

Trump wrote: 'If the Vice President (Mike Pence) had “absolutely no right” to change the Presidential Election results in the Senate, despite fraud and many other irregularities, how come the Democrats and RINO Republicans, like Wacky [Sen.] Susan Collins, are desperately trying to pass legislation that will not allow the Vice President to change the results of the election? Actually, what they are saying, is that Mike Pence did have the right to change the outcome, and they now want to take that right away. Unfortunately, he didn’t exercise that power, he could have overturned the Election!' Trump wrote.