'Freedom Convoy' truckers and protesters continued late Monday to block a border crossing into the US at a village in southern Alberta - one of the country's busiest border crossings - in solidarity with their brethren in Ottawa who have shut down the nation's capital.

Motorists traveling across the border between Montana and Alberta have been caught in blockade of vehicles that have essentially shut down the highway south of the city of Lethbridge, Alberta, 65 miles to the Canada-U.S. border crossing in the village of Coutts.

Despite being 2,000 miles away from Ottawa, the demonstration is related directly to what is happening in the Canadian capital where protests are running into a fourth day against Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and COVID-19 vaccine mandates - which require unvaccinated truckers to get a PCR test and quarantine.

Earlier Monday, Trudeau declared he will not be meeting with truckers currently overrunning Ottawa in protest of his vaccine mandate because of their 'hateful rhetoric.'

The truckers in Alberta were met with backlash from local law enforcement, who ordered the drivers to put ther rigs in gear and stop blocking trucks and other international commuters from crossing the currently gridlocked border.

But drivers stationed along the border have refused to budge from the major artery for commercial goods between the nations.

Canadian trucker John Schwarz was caught up in it for 40 hours while coming back from Idaho.

'These guys are basically holding us hostage, and nobody's doing anything about it,' Schwarz Canadian trucker John Schwarz, who was stuck in the blockade for 40 hours on the way back from Idaho, told CBC News.

By Monday afternoon, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said some vehicles were being allowed to leave the traffic jam but that the border was still blocked. A few hours later, some truckers had been persuaded to leave.

'Through negotiations and continuous talks with the organizers of the event, in the last little bit, the organizers agreed to open up, and some of the vehicles have been allowed to leave,' RCMP Cpl. Curtis Peters said.

'Some of these guys have been stuck here for for three days, and you know, no access to shower [or] food and away from their families. So it's good news for them.'

The blockade was also affecting life in the village of Coutts, where 100 trucks along Highway 4 prevented a school bus from leaving the village in order to get to the nearest school.

Residents of Coutts, of which there are around 250, were also unable to get to the village grocery store, gas station and pharmacy.

'I'm disappointed, I think is the main thing,' Coutts Mayor Jim Willett said. 'Not impressed, with the fact that they blocked off the highway. This event is unlawful'

A plan had been worked out with the town in order that life within the village could carry on as normal, but things quickly fell apart once truckers were refused across the border.

RCMP were also telling people trying to get into the U.S. to head to a different border crossing, while in Montana the situation was similar.

'Officials in Montana are stopping and advising motorists, commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles to find an alternative route as they won't be able to get through once they cross into Canada,' Cpl. Peters said.

The RCMP has since declared the event to be unlawful.

'When an event becomes unlawful, we utilize a measured approach, which ultimately includes enforcement,' the statement read.

'This event is unlawful and we are asking those who are involved to clear the area.'

Alberta Premier Jason Kenney has also called for the local blockade to draw to a close, adding that it was causing 'significant inconvenience for lawful motorists.'

The Alberta border crossing is used by truckers transporting a range of goods across the border including food such as beef, and farm equipment.

'For the most part, trucks can cross at other ports. It might be a bit of a delay and an additional expense to get there, but it is something that they can do,' said Carrie Barrows, who manages one of the brokerages. '

Trudeau, 50, held a press conference from isolation at an undisclosed location after testing positive for COVID-19 earlier that day. Two of the prime minister's three children also tested positive for the virus.

'Over the past few days, Canadians were shocked and frankly, disgusted by the behavior displayed by some people protesting in our nation's capital,' Trudeau said, referring to the unrest in Ottawa, which began on Saturday.

When asked whether he was going to meet the protesters, Trudeau said he had no interest in going 'anywhere near protests that have expressed hateful rhetoric and violence towards their fellow citizens.'

The politician went on to assert that he had personally attended protests himself when he 'agreed with the goals' being fought for, such as those championed by Black Lives Matter, but dismissed the truckers' dissent - which was spurred by the politico's own policies - as 'racist' and 'violent.'

'I have attended protests and rallies in the past when I agreed with the goals, when I supported the people expressing their concerns and their issues,' Trudeau said.

'But I have also chosen to not go anywhere near protests that have expressed hateful rhetoric, violence towards fellow citizens, and a disrespect not just of science, but of the frontline health workers and quite frankly, the 90 per cent of truckers who have been doing the right thing to keep Canadians safe to put food on our tables.'

The double-pronged effort from the coalition of more than 50,000 Canadian truck drivers - which has remained largely peaceful - was spurred by recent policies implemented by Trudeau's office that declared that by January 15, all truckers in the country who are unvaccinated must take a COVID-19 test and quarantine when driving back from the states.

Per the progressive politician's new guidance, Canadian drivers who are not vaccinated are barred from entering the US until they have gotten the jab, while American drivers are currently not allowed into Canada unless they produce a certificate proving that they have been inoculated.

The policy comes in stark contrast to that of the nation's neighbor the south, with American drivers returning home to the US not required to test and quarantine.

During the address, Trudeau conceded that he understood the frustrations of the Canadian people regarding the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic but asserted that some of the behavior seen at the recent protests in the nation's capital, including swastikas, Confederate flags, and the desecrating of memorials, was unacceptable.

'I want to be very clear, we are not intimidated by those who hurl insults and abuse at small business workers, and steal food from the homeless. We won't give in to those who fly racist flags. We won't cave to those who engage in vandalism or dishonor the memory of our veterans.'

He added: 'Freedom of expression, assembly, and association are cornerstones of democracy. But Nazi symbolism, racist imagery, and desecration of war memorials are not. It is an insult to memory and truth. Hate can never be the answer.'

Trudeau then called on the protesting truckers - and the thousands supporting them - to put a halt to their actions.

'There is no place in our country for threats, violence or hatred,' he asserted. 'So for those responsible for this behavior, it needs to stop. To anyone who joined the convoy and was rightly uncomfortable with the symbols of hatred and division on display, join with your fellow Canadians. Be courageous, and speak out. Do not stand for, or with, intolerance and hate.'

In his speech, Trudeau went on to slam conservative politicians from his country for supporting the truckers' protests, warning them to 'think long and hard about the consequences of your actions.'

After the address, the prime minister doubled down on his stance in a series of posts on social media.

Earlier that morning, after fleeing his home with his family Sunday as the thousands of truckers descended on the Canadian capital to protest the country's vaccine mandate and COVID lockdowns, Trudeau revealed he had tested positive for COVID-19.

'This morning, I tested positive for COVID-19,' the woke politician wrote on social media that morning.

'I'm feeling fine – and I'll continue to work remotely this week while following public health guidelines. Everyone, please get vaccinated and get boosted.'

Trudeau, who is vaccinated and has received a booster, is currently self-isolating at an undisclosed location after fleeing with his family from their home in the Canadian city as protesters convened, a four full days after the politician found out he had been exposed to the virus.

'Last night, I learned that I have been exposed to COVID-19,' Trudeau wrote on Twitter Thursday morning.

'My rapid test result was negative. I am following @OttawaHealth rules and isolating for five days. I feel fine and will be working from home. Stay safe, everyone – and please get vaccinated.'

The progressive prime minister provided no details on when or how he was exposed to the virus at the time, and his office has since not commented further on his positive test, which he said came early Monday morning.

The politico also did not divulge whether or not it was a rapid or PCR test that garnered the positive result, and has not yet updated the public as to his location.

Trudeau's revelation comes as the 'Freedom Convoy' of trucks - joined by thousands of demonstrators - brought Ottawa to a virtual standstill for a third day on Monday, as they protested the prime minister's vaccine mandates, forcing the prime minister to flee the city with his family due to 'security concerns.'

The decision to move the prime minister Saturday came after the sergeant-at-arms of the Canadian Parliament warned that protesters might show up at the homes of politicians, CBC reported.

The protesting truckers say there is no 'end date' in sight and plan to stay in the capital 'for as long as it takes' and until the Canadian government flips and withdraws its policy on vaccine mandates.

The chaos clogged the capital's downtown near parliament throughout the weekend and brought criticism from officials, including Ottawa's mayor who said residents were 'prisoners in their own home.'

But the demonstrators say they intend to stay and that their aim is to 'create chaos' and a 'logistics nightmare' for Trudeau's government.

'Right now, yeah, it's really cold, but we hang in there, the days are going to get longer and we take this block party and put it into overdrive,' BJ Dichter, one of the organizers of the Freedom Convoy, said at a press conference. 'We're in this one for the long haul. We don't have a time limit.'

The boisterous protests are now threatening to interrupt business on Monday, with authorities stating that City Hall will remain closed, traffic will be disrupted and some other services stalled.

Canada's House of Commons plans to be at work on Monday.

'The House will reconvene at 11am tomorrow, as planned, in accordance with the Standing Orders,' the Speaker's office confirmed on Sunday night.

No comment has been made on what security arrangements will be in place with thousands of protesters still on scene.

'This afternoon, a large presence of police continues throughout the downtown core and the movement of protestors and trucks continues to be managed,' the Ottawa police said in a statement.

'These high-risk situations were de-escalated and resolved with no arrests,' the authorities said, adding that 'police resources are fully stretched' in dealing with the obstruction, which appeared to involve hundreds of trucks.

The protest originated last week in western Canada, where dozens of truckers organized a convoy to drive from Vancouver to the Canadian capital to demonstrate against Covid-related restrictions, particularly a recent vaccination requirement for truck drivers crossing the long US-Canada border.

Multiple convoys began arriving in Ottawa on Friday, and were joined by thousands of other anti-vaccination protesters.

In Ottawa, the desecration of a war memorial and harassment of some city officials and NGO volunteers sparked an angry response, and the police said they had launched 'several investigations.'

'I am sickened to see protesters dance on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and desecrate the National War Memorial,' Wayne Eyre, chief of the country's Defense Staff, said on Twitter.

'Those involved should hang their heads in shame.'

Barricades were installed on Sunday to block vehicle access to the area around the war memorial, after several illegally parked vehicles were towed away.

And an organization advocating for the homeless, Shepherds of Good Hope, said its workers had been 'harassed' by protesters demanding meals on a particularly cold weekend.

It said it had briefly given free meals to some demonstrators in an effort to defuse tensions, but added, 'This weekend's events have caused significant strain to our operations at an already difficult time.'

Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson fumed over what he called 'threatening' behavior by some of the protesters, particularly against the media.

'Stop the bully tactics and show some respect to fellow Canadians,' he said on Twitter.

Later, in an interview with the CBC, Watson said it was time for protesters to 'move on' so Ottawa can return to normal.

'Quite frankly, residents feel they're prisoners in their own home,' he said.

Earlier in the weekend, former President Donald Trump gave vocal support for the Canadian truck drivers telling a rally in Texas that he was with the drivers 'all the way'.

Trump praised the convoy participants for 'doing more to defend American freedom than our own leaders by far.'

'We want those great Canadian truckers to know that we are with them all the way,' he told a crowd of supporters in Conroe, 40 miles north of Houston.

Trump also slammed President Joe Biden for his administration's vaccine mandates affecting federal contractors, large businesses, health workers and the military.

Last week, Trump's son Donald Trump Jr had also expressed support for the convoy, saying: 'We need to see more of this here in the U.S.'

On Friday, police in Nova Scotia announced there would be fines of up to $10,000 CA ($7,800) for anyone blocking the highway, as more truckers converged on Ottawa from across the country.

Ottawa police on Sunday confirmed they had opened an investigation after some of the protesters were filmed dancing and drinking on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Some reports suggested people had urinated on the memorial. Vehicles were parked on the Cenotaph, in what police said was a sign of disrespect.

A statue of Terry Fox, a Canadian athlete and cancer research activist, was adorned with a placard against mandates, sparking widespread revulsion.

'The Terry Fox Foundation is proud to continue Terry's mission of funding cancer research. Terry believed in science and gave his life to help others,' the Terry Fox Foundation said, in comments retweeted by Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister.

Ottawa police said no arrests were made during Saturday's protests, despite 'several challenges with demonstrators, including sporadic road blockages by trucks, which officers worked to clear.'

They added: 'These high-risk situations were de-escalated and resolved with no arrests.'

The police also asked people to make reports, rather than flagging social media to them.

'Several criminal investigations are underway in relation to the desecration of the National War Memorial/Terry Fox statue, threatening/illegal/intimidating behavior to police/city workers and other individuals and damage to a city vehicle,' the police tweeted.

'Illegal behavior will not be tolerated and will be fully investigated.

'We have investigative and evidence-gathering teams in place to support the management of the demonstration.'

The protest has been condemned by the Canadian Trucking Alliance, a major industry group.

They said the vast majority of the country's truck drivers are vaccinated, with officials saying over 80 percent are inoculated.

It has 'strongly disapproved' of the gathering in Ottawa.

The truckers are protesting a vaccine mandate for their industry brought in on January 15, which means that unvaccinated Canadian drivers returning to their homeland must take a COVID test before crossing the US-Canada border, and quarantine on arrival.

Unvaccinated Canadian drivers cannot now enter the United States, and unvaccinated American drivers cannot enter Canada, after previous exemptions expired.

Hundreds of truckers have driven their giant rigs into Ottawa as part of a self-titled 'Freedom Convoy'.

Trudeau called the truckers headed for the city a 'small fringe minority' before the convoy of hundreds of vehicles grew up to 45 miles long, as it made its way to the capital.

The movement received an endorsement on Thursday from Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk, who tweeted, 'Canadian truckers rule'.

The movement has become a cause celebre for many on the right of politics in the United States.

But Catherine McKenney, a councillor representing Ottawa, said that her constituents wanted the truckers to leave.

'Centretown residents have had enough. All-night honking; music; swastikas; public urination & defecation.

'I have asked @OttawaPolice remove protestors from the QED & out of all residential areas. Residents deserve peace and relief from these disgusting acts. #OttNews'

Flying the Canadian flag, waving banners demanding 'Freedom' and chanting slogans against Trudeau, the truckers were joined by thousands of other protesters angered not only by COVID-19 restrictions but by broader discontent with the government.

There was an enormous clamor as hundreds of big trucks, their engines rumbling, sounded their air horns non-stop.

Closer to Parliament, families calmly marched on a bitterly cold day, while young people chanted and older people in the crowd banged pots and pans in protest under Trudeau's office windows.

'I want it all to stop - these measures are unjustified,' said one demonstrator, 31-year-old businessman Philippe Castonguay, outside the Parliament building.

He had driven seven hours from northern Quebec province to make his feelings known.

'The vaccination requirements are taking us toward a new society we never voted for,' he said.

Trudeau said Friday that the truckers' views - which he described as anti-science, anti-government and anti-society - posed a risk not only to themselves but to other Canadians as well.

Police said they were expecting eight convoys, totaling several thousand vehicles, and perhaps 10,000 demonstrators.

Stephen Penderness, an unvaccinated 28-year-old trucker from Ontario, said he was protesting for all Canadians, not just his fellow drivers.

'It's actually for every single person... everybody on the road,' he said. 'It's all about your free choice.'

'We shouldn't be forced to get vaccinated, regardless of the vaccine.'

She said vaccine passports 'represent an intrusion in our personal lives.'

There was a strong police presence around the federal capital, amid fears the protest could turn violent.

Ottawa police chief Peter Sloly described the situation as 'unique, fluid, risky and significant.'

'Let me be very clear,' he told reporters on Friday, 'we are prepared to investigate, arrest if necessary, charge and prosecute anyone who acts violently or breaks the law.'

He urged local residents to stay off the roads.

The zone around the Parliament was closed for the weekend.

While their trucks were parked in front of the parliamentary buildings, protestors marched carrying copies of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, while others carried signs reading 'God keep our land glorious and free,' 'Make Canada great again,' and 'we are here for our freedom,' the Toronto Sun reported.

Ottawa Police were at the scene warning truckers that any vehicles blocking emergency lanes or other locations that must be kept clear for public safety reasons would be towed.

At the protest was Tom Pappin, 53, who came from just outside Ottawa.

'I can travel freely through the border, and not be in contact with anyone. Yet I'm locked into my own country right now,' he said.

'I can't go on a holiday. I can't go to a restaurant, I can't go bowling. I can't go to a movie. You know, these are things that it's just gotten out of control.'

Pappin told the Toronto Sun that attendees are likely to stay parked by Parliament until vaccine mandates are lifted.

Other protestors were more realistic about what the protest would accomplish.

'It's a nice thought, but I don't think anything will happen immediately,' Phil Powers, a truck driver from Oshawa, Ontario told the Toronto Sun.

'This is the Canadian space to have the debate, so that's why we're here.'

Truckers from the US - who are only allowed into Canada if they are vaccinated - have also joined the massive convoy.

The longest convoy in history was just five miles long, consisted of 480 trucks, and took place in Egypt in 2020, according to the Guinness Book of World Records.

In a list of demands, the organizers of the Freedom Convoy are calling for an end to vaccine passports and for the federal government to respect the rights of the unvaccinated.

Trudeau hit the brakes on their demands.

'What we are hearing from some people associated with this convoy is completely unacceptable,' he said.

'We know the way through this pandemic is to get everyone vaccinated.

'The overwhelming majority, close to 90 percent of Canadians, have done exactly that.'

But supporters of the convoy disagree, with one driver saying that 'the amount of trucks involved and the amount of people showing up here, this shows the frustrations of Canadians and it's going to continue to grow.'

Canada has enacted some of the most strict COVID-19 protocols worldwide.

Ontario will only closed its restaurants, gyms and movie theaters early this month, and will only reopen them at the beginning of February.

Vaccinations were mandated in for federal workers last year, and the premier of Quebec announced plans to penalize unvaccinated residents that don't have a medical reason not to get the shot.