Threats of beheading. Six-figure political donations from an out-of-state millionaire with a grudge. A rogue IT worker who will be “dealt with.” Baseless allegations of voter fraud before a single vote has even been counted.

You can find all of that and more in Shasta County ahead of Tuesday’s recall election of District 2 Supervisor Leonard Moty.

“It’s just disturbing, because I never thought the community I grew up in would act in this manner,” Moty said. “It’s just startling and disturbing for people to be this way towards their neighbors.”

Anger over COVID-19 restrictions has fueled recall elections of public officials across the state over the past year, but the recall election set to take place in Shasta County is different. Moty is a Republican. Former President Donald Trump won the county by more than 30 percentage points in 2020. And the run-up to this particular election has seen a political climate that county elections chief Cathy Darling Allen isn’t comfortable with.

"I guess contentious is a word you can use," Allen told SFGATE. "You definitely have a group of folks with very serious concerns who are very loud about expressing those."

With respect to Allen, “contentious" dramatically undersells the current state of affairs in Shasta County.

There are five people on the Board of Supervisors. The two most conservative — Patrick Jones and Les Baugh — helped target their three more moderate conservative colleagues for recall, but organizers were only able to collect enough signatures for Moty. During the pandemic, Jones and Baugh have regularly caused fireworks and drama at meetings — that is, until board meetings were moved online because Moty began receiving credible death threats.

Jones’ and Baugh’s chief complaint is that Moty and the other two supervisors didn't do enough to defy Gov. Gavin Newsom and the California Department of Public Health over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Under California law, state COVID-19 restrictions override more lax policies set by county health departments. Unlike Bay Area counties and Los Angeles County, the Shasta County Department of Public Health never implemented any public health measures more restrictive than the state.

Moty criticized what he described as Newsom’s "one size fits all approach” to local COVID policy, including the county watch list and the color-coded reopening system. He believes that the second stay-at-home order issued in December 2020 that shuttered outdoor dining went too far.

Despite these disagreements, Moty told SFGATE that he believes many of the actions Jones and Baugh wanted to take — including a resolution announcing the county would not enforce state restrictions — would be symbolic, and perhaps even drive the state to withhold county funds. (Shasta wouldn’t have been alone in such symbolic gestures: In Butte County, the city of Oroville has branded itself a "constitutional republic" and announced it will not enforce any state mandates.)

But Jones disagrees strongly with Moty's characterization of such a resolution.

"I reject the idea a resolution is only symbolic," he told SFGATE. "Shasta is the largest county in the north, so we would have sent a message to other conservative counties watching and waiting to see what we were doing. … Leonard Moty has bowed down to the governor each and every time. He says one thing, and then his actions prove otherwise. People don’t want double talk where he says, 'I don’t support this,' but won’t actually do anything about it. That won't work any longer, the people are paying attention."

Predictably, Moty and Jones have very different views on the COVID-19 pandemic. Moty is vaccinated, supported business restrictions and mask mandates before the vaccine was widely available. He hasn’t taken a position on issues like school mask mandates since the vaccine became widely available. He told SFGATE that he hasn't thought too deeply about current statewide restrictions, because he has little control over COVID-19 policy. When SFGATE pressed him on whether he supports school mask mandates as a parent, rather than as a public official, he again refused to take a stance.

Jones, meanwhile, opposes all COVID-19 restrictions. He told SFGATE that he is not vaccinated, relying on his "natural immunity," dietary habits and the number of supplements he consumes to protect him from the virus. When SFGATE asked the 53-year-old Jones when he was infected, he said he has not yet been infected to his knowledge.

To be clear, “natural immunity” is protection "acquired from exposure to the disease organism through infection with the actual disease,” according to The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

After SFGATE presented Jones with this fact, he said, "I haven’t been to the doctor in 25 years, and I'm fine. In the last two years, I've never been sick and I haven’t gotten any colds. I've washed my hands and improved my hygiene, because they said early on to wash your hands and never touch your face, so I've been washing more thoroughly and that's the only way I've changed my life. I haven't gotten COVID yet even though everyone thought I would get it."

The CDC has been saying for some time now that surface-based transmission of COVID-19 is rare, and the hand-washing obsession in the pandemic's early days was likely unwarranted.

COVID-19 policy is at the heart of Tuesday's recall, but it’s not the only criticism Moty is facing. He was also censured by the board over his conduct during the 2018 Carr Fire. Last year, a grand jury found that Moty repeatedly used his office to receive an escort into an evacuation zone to refuel a generator at his home, a luxury not afforded to members of the general public. Moty told SFGATE the saga was overblown, the result of a "vengeful" sheriff he worked with previously.

In addition to organic, grassroots anger toward Moty in the community, he believes that another person with a grudge is helping fuel that rage: millionaire Reverge Anselmo, who left the county after a high-profile fight with county officials over a decade ago.

In 2007, the county ordered Anselmo to stop work on a new 670-acre ranch, alleging that he’d violated local zoning ordinances. After losing a lawsuit to overturn the order, Anselmo moved to Connecticut. But he still periodically donates huge amounts of money to conservative causes in Shasta, including $400,000 to the committee gathering signatures in the Moty recall.

"That is an unheard of amount of money for Shasta County politics," Moty said. "He wants to dismantle this county and to have vengeance for losing his lawsuit. He just wants to burn it down."

Anselmo, who could not be reached for comment and has declined similar requests from other media outlets, also donated $100,000 to Jones' campaign for supervisor in 2020. The Redding-based Record Searchlight wrote that Anselmo's contribution to Jones was "believed to be at that time the largest individual dollar contribution ever to a local political campaign."

Jones offered an impassioned defense of Anselmo, stating that he got "railroaded" by the county.

"I lived through that and watched firsthand what a railroading looks like," he said. "If you want to talk in liberal crowds, you can believe [he's controversial] and believe what the newspapers say. But he was extorted, the county treated him very poorly so he left and will never will return. The corruption here, you won’t read about it in the local newspapers, but it's harming the county."

With or without Anselmo's money, the anger in Shasta County is palpable.

Board of Supervisors meetings went virtual after death threats were made against Moty and the other two more moderate supervisors. Moty said that the threats are unlike anything he's ever experienced in his time as a public official.

"One person indicated that bullets are expensive but ropes are reusable; and someone else talked about tarring and feathering me," Moty said. "There's been talk of guillotines, things like that. It’s been very difficult for my family, difficult for my wife and kids to hear attacks like that.”

When asked whether he's sympathetic to Moty’s family, Jones said, "the threats are not credible and come from a couple people who are mentally deranged sitting at a keyboard." (The Shasta County Sheriff's Department has, in fact, found threats to be credible.)

Jones believes that Moty is using the threats as part of a strategy to suppress public comment. He told SFGATE that Moty has repeatedly violated the law by interrupting members of the public before they have a full three minutes to speak, and shown a "shocking" level of contempt for his constituents at board meetings, often turning off his camera during public comment when board meetings are virtual.

Moty has also sought to limit the number of people allowed at in-person board meetings; Jones responded by opening the supervisors' chambers to members of the public, an act that resulted in an IT employee deactivating his ID card for the building. Jones called the deactivation an "illegal act" and vowed that the person responsible "will be dealt with as soon as the recall is over."

Both Moty and Jones believe that the recall will go their way on Tuesday. While there has been no public polling of the race, Moty said he believes that some of the more moderate conservatives in his district are "waking up" and will vote to retain him. Jones, unsurprisingly, has a different take.

"There's no doubt about it," he said. "There's a 100% chance over 50% of District 2 will vote to recall Leonard Moty. We got 6,000 people to sign the petition and force the recall election, and that's close to the total number of people who will vote in this election. The likelihood of him coming up with 6,000 votes to save him is slim. It's statistically impossible. He can't win this."

SFGATE presented Jones' analysis to Allen, the county clerk of elections, who said that 5,847 ballots have been returned so far, and the county expects many more.

"There are over 21,000 registered voters in District 2," she said. "I’m not sure why he said that."

Allen has her own complaints about the election, telling SFGATE that her office has become a "dumping ground for frustrations" and that people are already calling the legitimacy of the vote into question.

Should Moty win, Allen anticipates a reaction similar to the widely debunked allegations of voter fraud after the 2020 presidential election, and said there's nothing she can do to stop one.

"We're getting lots of calls from conspiracy-minded folks who have lots of concerns over elections," Allen said. "There's such an attention on the process that just didn't exist five years ago."

Shasta County may not know for days or weeks whether Moty will survive the recall, particularly if the race is close. Regardless of the outcome, Jones predicted that there will be future attempts to recall the other two moderate conservatives of the board, and that other conservative counties could follow Shasta's lead in removing leaders out of touch with the party's base.

"The public is rising up to remove one of the worst offenders," Jones said of Republican elected leaders who don't fight hard enough for conservative causes. "These recall groups have a lot more gas in their tanks and will pursue opportunities to remove more ineffective leaders going forward."