In Part 1 of this article I laid out the case the “dark winter” narrative and how an experimental vaccine marketed like a tech product by Big Pharma and their cronies are part of a globalist scheme to reset the world and force us into subservience. In Part 2 of the article I revealed how the “build back better” narrative is part of Klaus Schwab’s Great Reset plan to implement a one world command and control dystopia, managed by billionaire oligarchs and their dark forces.

Their “new normal” tripe is built on a foundation of falsity. The Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 killed 50 million people when the population of earth was 1.8 billion, or 2.8% of the world population. This China flu has contributed to the deaths of 1.8 million people with a worldwide population of 7.8 billion, or .023%. The world was not locked down by totalitarians, no vaccine was created, the flu dissipated over time (probably due to natural herd immunity), people continued to live their lives, and the world returned to normal without global elites dictating how we had to live.

There is no such thing as a new normal. There is normal and abnormal. What we are experiencing today is a warped stage-managed abnormality being jammed down our throats by men who will benefit greatly if we let them take over the world, with no downside risk for themselves when their hair brained ideas tragically fail.

Allowing all businesses to open, allowing all workers to work, ending the masking farce, opening schools, guaranteeing freedom of speech on social media platforms, restoring the freedoms and liberties of citizens, not forcing a DNA changing vaccine upon those who do not want it, protecting the old and infirm, and letting the virus run its course, will allow us to go back to normal. These wealthy powerful tyrants will not allow this to happen without a fight to the finish.

“In this hour, I do not believe that any darkness will endure.” ― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Return of the King

“You can only come to the morning through the shadows.” ― J.R.R. Tolkien

I find the words of Tolkien inspiring and hopeful in this time of danger and deceit. To those of us who still believe the founding principles of our country, as documented in the Constitution, need to be upheld and honored by those we have chosen to represent us, a darkness has descended upon our world endangering our way of life and threatening to turn the world into a communist nightmare of impoverishment, retribution and one world government run by billionaire oligarchs and their worthless bureaucratic state cronies.

The carefree bright days of the shire are long gone, and the eye of Sauron has set its glaze upon the deplorable hobbits trying to regain their way of life by embarking on a journey to confront the forces of evil arrayed against them. The primary themes of Tolkien’s masterpiece are the corrupting influence of power and the inevitability of decline in all civilizations.

A dark winter will entomb the nation if basement Biden assumes power on January 20, 2021. This will mean the corrupt powerful forces of tyranny will have successfully pulled off their election coup. The corrupting influence of power is clearly seen in the likes of Gates, Bezos, Bloomberg, Zuckerberg and Dorsey, as their success in creating businesses and reaping massive riches makes them believe their political beliefs should hold sway over the masses, while they use their extreme wealth to influence elections and control the administration of the world.

This corruption of power turns these men into perverted arrogant creatures, seeking further wealth, power, and control. Soros represents the wretched, demented Gollum-like creature in our current day battle for middle earth, consumed by desire for the power of the ring (new world order). Biden, Schwab, Soros and their ANTIFA and BLM Orcs are already at war, and it is time for us to defend what is dear.

“War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. I love only that which they defend.” ― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Two Towers

“The treacherous are ever distrustful.” ― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Two Towers

The inevitability of decline is true for humans, as well as civilizations, empires, and ages. The Great Reset/Davos crowd wants to transform our world into a green utopia, ruled by those who fervently believe they are more intelligent than those they rule, because they equate ill-gotten wealth with intellectual superiority. The truth is, these narcissistic psychopath lords are going to die, just like the serfs they want to entrap in servitude to their one world government.

Gates, Soros, Bloomberg, Bezos, Zuckerberg and the rest of Great Reset mob do not deserve our admiration, but our scorn and contempt. They are consumed by their self-importance and avarice for complete control over those they see as nothing more than cattle. Coercion, impoverishment, and fear are their tools, and domination is their goal. They appear to have the upper hand, as people around the globe cower in fear as the Eye of Sauron (Covid-19) is turned in their direction. Despair fills the air.

“It is not despair, for despair is only for those who see the end beyond all doubt. We do not.” ― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Fellowship of the Ring