ABC News staffers are furious at the network for not firing Whoopi Goldberg after she claimed that the Holocaust wasn't about race, with some accusing the network of having an anti-Semitic 'blind spot'.

Whoopi, 66, made the controversial comments on The View on Monday. She referred to Jews and Nazis as 'two groups of white people' and said that because they were both white, it was about 'inhumanity' and not race'.

Her remarks sparked immediate international backlash with everyone from the Israeli Consular General in New York to the Auschwitz Memorial and Antidefamation League taking offense. ABC has refused to comment on the scandal.

Whoopi posted an apology on Twitter last night saying the Holocaust was about 'both' race and inhumanity.

On Tuesday, she made an on-air apology, then interviewed the CEO of The Anti-Defamation League, before moving on to other topics with her co-hosts.

Ahead of The View's show on Tuesday, a senior ABC News source told DailyMail.com that staff are stunned by the network's soft touch on her remarks, especially when it was so quick to fire Roseanne Barr over racist comments towards Valerie Jarrett.

'These comments are absolutely abhorrent and outrageous and it’s time Disney and ABC grew a pair and fired her,' the source said.

'Disney took swift action and fired Roseanne Barr when she posted the awful tweet about Valerie Jarrett, yet Whoopi made her vile comments on ABC’s air and they do nothing about it? Where is the leadership from within Disney?

'[Disney content chairman] Peter Rice needs to step up and do his job and fire Whoopi. How is this appropriate at all? What message do we send as a company? Why is there one rule for Whoopi Goldberg – who gets a pass on everything and another rule for everyone else?' said the source.

‘There is a blind spot on The View when it comes to anti-Semitism. It is never a big enough hate crime for them.

They added that the comment on Monday was only the latest in a string of inflammatory claims made by Whoopi, who previously defended Bill Cosby on the show.

The saga began when the panel discussed a Tennessee school removing the comic Maus from its curriculum because it contained nudity. Critics are now demanding that Goldberg be fired from the show. They pointed to other talk show hosts and TV personalities like Sharon Osborne and Roseanne Barr who were fired over making controversial remarks. Goldberg started off by saying: 'Personally I am shocked because given the story of Maus I am surprised that that's what made you uncomfortable. 'It's about the Holocaust, the killing of 6million people, but that didn't bother you. This is white people doing it to white people so y'all go fight amongst yourselves but...' Later, she carried on: 'Let's be truthful about it. The Holocaust isn't about race. It's not about race. It's not about race. It's not about race. It's about man's inhumanity to man. That's what it's about.' Co-hosts Ana Navarro, Joy Behar and Sarah Haines all argued back but she continued: 'But these are two white groups of people? You are missing the point. 'The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley. 'Let's talk about it for what it is, it's how people treat each other.'

'We were all outraged when Whoopi was defending Bill Cosby and ABC had to bring [legal analyst] Dan Abrams on the show to help her understand that her views surrounding Cosby were extremely problematic.

'This was after fifty women, FIFTY, had come forward with serious allegations about him.'

'People are livid within the news division as it completely undermines our credibility.'

The source also alleged that former host Meghan McCain previously pitched the victim of a Jewish hate crime as a guest on the show but that she was told to conduct the interview for online only.

Among those who fumed over Goldberg being allowed to stay on the show was Piers Morgan.

'Sharon Osbourne was fired from The Talk for defending me against a fake charge of racism. Whoopi Goldberg said on The View yesterday that the Holocaust ‘wasn’t about race’, which for Jewish people is about as racist a comment as anyone could make.

'Bet she doesn’t lose her job,' he said.

Osborne was fired from The Talk, a CBS show, for defending Morgan against allegations he was racist because he did not believe everything the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, said.

Others have compared Whoopi's situation to that of Joe Rogan, the Spotify podcast host who was admonished by musicians because he hosted anti-vax opinions on his show.

Spotify is standing by him and adding a content advisory warning to his shows, ignoring the demands of musicians like Joni Mitchell and Neil Young who threatened to pull their music off the streaming site because they disagreed with Rogan.

Rogan has never disclosed his vaccination status. It's unclear if he is pro or against it but the very fact he was giving a platform to the topic of anti-vaxxing was enough, they said, to constitute disinformation.

On Tuesday, Whoopi returned to The View and kicked off the show with an on-air apology.

'Yesterday on our show I misspoke. I tweeted about it last night but I kind of want you to hear it from me directly. I feel a responsibility.

'My words upset so many people which was never my intention. I understand why. The information I got was really helpful.

'I said the Holocaust wasn't about race and was instead about man's inhumanity to man.

'It is indeed about race because Hitler and the Nazis considered Jews to be the inferior race.

'Words matter and mine are no exception. I regret my comments and I stand corrected,' she said.

She then went on to interview Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, who spoke generally about anti-Semitism and why it is still a threat, before cutting to a commercial.

Then, after the break, they resumed the 'hot topics' of the day including Rihanna's pregnancy.

Whoopi's co-hosts have not yet publicly commented on her remarks.

WHOOPI'S WHOOPSIES: THE MANY PAST CONTROVERSIES THAT THE VIEW HOST HAS GOTTEN AWAY WITH Whoopi's Holocaust comments are not the first time she has made controversial remarks on the show - and gotten away with them. From Mel Gibson's racist, drunken rants to Bill Cosby's sex crimes, Whoopi, has gone against the grain repeatedly. 'I know he's not a racist': Whoopie defends her 'friend' Mel Gibson after he tells his then girlfriends he hopes she gets raped by a 'pack of n****s' In July 2010, Goldberg defended Mel Gibson after a furious conversation between him and ex-girlfriend Oksana Grigorieva was published. Gibson tells his Russian girlfriend, mother of his daughter Lucia: 'You look like a f****** pig in heat, and if you get raped by a pack of n******, it will be your fault.' 'I know Mel, and I know he's not a racist,' she said. 'I have had a long friendship with Mel. You can say he's being a bonehead, but I can't sit and say that he's a racist having spent time with him in my house with my kids.' Goldberg was quick to add, however, that she does not condone his actions. 'I don't like what he's done,' she said. 'Make no mistake.' When co-host Joy Behar asked Goldberg if she thought Gibson was anti-Semitic, she replied, 'I think he's an a******,' quickly covering her mouth before the full word escaped her lips. MEN HAVE 'EVERY RIGHT TO HIT WOMEN' WHO HIT THEM FIRST In 2014, she twice sprung to the defense of male celebrities involved in violent confrontations with women. First she said that Jay-Z, who was attacked by Beyoncé's sister Solange Knowles in an elevator at The Standard Hotel, would have been justified in hitting her back. Goldberg told The View in May 2014 that a man has 'every right' to hit a woman in some circumstances. Jaz-Z refrained from any attack. 'I think Solange was quite ready for him to do whatever he was going to do,' Goldberg said. 'This is the thing: If anybody hits you, you have the right – I know that many people are raised in a different way – but if a woman hits you, to me, you have the right to hit her back,' she said. The floodgates of allegations opened in November 2014, but Goldberg defended him resolutely until July 2015. 'He has not been proven a rapist,' she insisted in early July 2015. 'It's my opinion, and the American courts agree with me because still he has not been taken to jail or tried on anything. So back off me!' Several weeks later, she finally changed her tune. 'I gotta say, all of the information that's out there kinda points to 'guilt',' she concluded. Perhaps the thrice-married actress's most damaging moment came when she was invited to speak at the Democratic National Convention, in 2004, and made a crude joke about then-Republican President George W. Bush. 'I love Bush, but somebody's giving Bush a bad name,' Goldberg told the audience. We should keep Bush where he belongs,' she said, gesturing at her genitals, 'and not in the White House.' Goldberg was condemned for her remarks, and lost a lucrative contract with Slim Fast. She said at the time she was taken aback by the outrage. 'I've done material on every president in the past 20 years, from Reagan to Carter, from Clinton to Bush. It seems now that people from the other side are using this to further their own agenda,' she said. The Manhattan-born performer found herself cast into the wilderness after her comments, and has since said she didn't work for five years. 'For a good three years, I couldn't even get arrested,' she told The New York Times in 2019. 'Eventually I was lucky enough to get a radio show, and then Barbara Walters asked if I would consider doing 'The View.'' Goldberg officially joined the show in August 2007, taking the slot vacated by Rosie O'Donnell. EX-BOYFRIEND USING THE N-WORD IN ROAST Whoopi's infamous roast by then-boyfriend Ted Danson where he repeatedly used the n-word and joked about racially mixed kids. In 1993, she was roasted by her then-boyfriend Ted Danson at the Friar's Club. Goldberg and Danson collaborated on the jokes, and Danson appeared on stage in blackface with his lips painted white, proceeding to make graphic jokes about Goldberg's anatomy and repeatedly used the n-word. Attendees were horrified and then-New York City Mayor David Dinkins - the first black mayor of the city - said he was 'embarrassed for Whoopi and the audience and felt a tremendous sense of relief when it was over.' Talk show host Montel Williams stormed off seven minutes into Danson's monologue and left with his visibly upset wife. 'When Ted made the jokes about the racially mixed kids, and everyone knows my wife is white and just gave birth to our child, I could see my wife start to cry,' Williams told The New York Daily News. 'If that's what Whoopi and Ted find funny in their bedroom, it's not funny to the outside world.' Williams said he planned to send roses and a note of apology to all the black women sitting on the dais with him for what he said was like 'a meeting of the Klan.'

The saga began when the panel discussed a Tennessee school removing the comic Maus from its curriculum because it contained nudity.

Critics are now demanding that Goldberg be fired from the show.

They pointed to other talk show hosts and TV personalities like Sharon Osborne and Roseanne Barr who were fired over making controversial remarks.

Goldberg started off by saying: 'Personally I am shocked because given the story of Maus I am surprised that that's what made you uncomfortable.

'It's about the Holocaust, the killing of 6million people, but that didn't bother you. This is white people doing it to white people so y'all go fight amongst yourselves but...'

Later, she carried on: 'Let's be truthful about it. The Holocaust isn't about race. It's not about race. It's not about race. It's not about race. It's about man's inhumanity to man. That's what it's about.'

Co-hosts Ana Navarro, Joy Behar and Sarah Haines all argued back but she continued: 'But these are two white groups of people? You are missing the point.

'The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley.

'Let's talk about it for what it is, it's how people treat each other.'