(OPINION) Co-host Whoopi Goldberg caused chaos on ABC’s “The View” Monday when she insisted that the Holocaust was “not about race.” While discussing a Tennessee school district’s recent ban of the Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel “Maus,” about a Holocaust survivor, Goldberg argued that the genocide was broader than a race-based injustice.

“The Holocaust isn’t about race. No, it’s not about race,” Goldberg, 66, said repeatedly. “It’s about man’s inhumanity to man.” Other “View” co-hosts were quick to disagree. “Well, it’s about white supremacy. That’s what it’s about,” interrupted political strategist Ana Navarro.

“It’s about going after Jews and Gypsies.” She later apologized – but in a muddled attempt to clarify her comments, ended up having to say sorry again. The Nazis, who believed themselves an Aryan “master race”, murdered six million Jews in the Holocaust. Maus, which depicts Jews as mice and Nazis as cats, has won a number of literary awards.

BBC News went on to report that the school board said it banned the book because its profanity, nudity, and depiction of suicide were inappropriate for 13-year-olds. Goldberg, a 66-year-old Oscar-winning actress who has been on The View since 2007, told her co-hosts: “I’m surprised that’s what made you uncomfortable, the fact that there was some nudity. “I mean, it’s about the Holocaust, the killing of six million people, but that didn’t bother you? “If you’re going to do this, then let’s be truthful about it. Because the Holocaust isn’t about race. No, it’s not about race.” Co-host Joy Behar pointed out that the Nazis said the Jews were a different race. Goldberg said: “But it’s not about race. It’s not. It’s about man’s inhumanity to other man.” “But it’s about white supremacy,” responded co-host Ana Navarro. “It’s about going after Jews and Gypsies and Roma.” “But these are two white groups of people,” countered Goldberg. Co-host Sara Haines pointed out that the Nazis “didn’t see them as white”. Goldberg continued: “But you’re missing the point! The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley. Let’s talk about it for what it is. It’s how people treat each other. It’s a problem.”