It’s Rangers who lead the way, two points clear of their big rivals, as they look to lift the trophy for a second consecutive season.

Giovanni van Bronckhorst gets his first taste of facing Celtic as a manager, though did so plenty of times during his three years as a Rangers player. The club has also been given a huge boost by the deadline day signing of Aaron Ramsey, who joins from Juventus on loan with the option to make it a permanent move in the summer.

For Celtic, they know a win in front of their home fans would take them to the top of the table.

They have not lost domestically at home all season and while they were beaten at Ibrox earlier in the season, it is now 17 league matches unbeaten for the Hoops.

Here’s everything you need to know ahead of the latest Old Firm clash.

The Old Firm is scheduled for a 7:45pm GMT kick-off time on Wednesday February 2, 2022.

Celtic Park in Glasgow will host it.

Where to watch Celtic vs Rangers

TV channel: The game will be broadcast on Sky Sports Main Event and Sky Sports Football. Coverage begins at 7pm GMT.

Live stream: Sky Sports subscribers will be able to watch the game will be broadcast on the Sky Go App

Callum McGregor could feature for Celtic, with the midfielder back in training ahead of the Old Firm clash after recovering from a facial injury.

Daizen Maeda will likely miss out though, having played for Japan against Saudi Arabia on Tuesday. Nir Bitton is unavailable due to suspension.

Rangers boss Giovanni van Bronckhorst has confirmed Ramsey will not feature against Celtic, but could be brought into the squad on the weekend to face Hearts.

“No, Aaron will not be in the squad [to play Celtic],” van Bronckhorst said.

“He’s been out for a couple of weeks, he trained with the squad today, he looks really good, but tomorrow comes too soon for him.

“We’ll assess him this week but I think we can welcome him really quickly to the squad.”

Rangers are top of the table but that gap has been cut to two points, after recent draws against Aberdeen and Ross County.

This is Rangers’ first Old Firm derby since Steven Gerrard’s departure, and Celtic go into the match high on confidence. They have conceded just two goals all season at home in the league, and another tight win looks on the cards.