He urged Russia to “step back” amid fears it is planning to invade its neighbour after it stationed 100,000 troops near the border.

The prime minister made the comments while speaking at a news conference at the Mariinskyi Palace presidential palace in Kyiv alongside Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelensky.

He said: “The Prime Minister said the build-up of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border was possibly the greatest act of hostility “towards the Ukraine in our lifetimes”.

“We have to face a grim reality, which is that as we stand here, Volodymyr, today, more than 100,000 Russian troops are gathering on your border in perhaps the biggest demonstration of hostility towards the Ukraine in our lifetimes.

“And the potential deployment dwarfs the 30,000 troops that Russia sent to invade Crimea in 2014.

“Since that time of course, everybody knows that 13,000 Ukrainians have been killed and Ukraine has been plunged into a decade of war

“It goes without saying that a further Russian invasion of Ukraine would be a political disaster, a humanitarian disaster, in my view it would also be for Russia, for the world, a military disaster as well.”

Mr Johnson said the UK and its allies were ready to launch sanctions against Russia “the moment the first Russian toecap crosses further into Ukrainian territory”.

He continued: “We have done all this and prepared all this not as a show of hostility towards Russia, but as a demonstration that we will always stand up for freedom and democracy and Ukrainian sovereignty in the face of aggression.”

Mr Johnson said the people of Ukraine had an “inalienable right to choose how they are governed and indeed which organisations they aspire to join”.

He added: “It is vital that Russia steps back and chooses a path of diplomacy, and I believe that is still possible, we are keen to engage in dialogue, of course we are, but we have the sanctions ready, we’re providing military support, and we will also intensify our economic cooperation.”

Some £88 million in UK aid has been made available to support Ukraine, he said.

A joint statement following the meeting between the two leaders said that the UK stands “shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine in the face of ongoing Russian aggression”.

The statement, released by the offices of the Prime Minister and the president, said: “The Prime Minister emphasised the United Kingdom’s unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders.

“The United Kingdom stands shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine in the face of ongoing Russian aggression, which threatens regional peace and security and undermines the global order. The two leaders emphasised that it is the right of every Ukrainian to determine their own future.

“The leaders warned that any further Russian incursion in Ukraine would be a massive strategic mistake and have a stark humanitarian cost.”

It said Ukraine and the UK would “work together to strengthen Ukraine’s security and ability to defend itself”.

Russia has stationed more than 100,000 troops, tanks, artillery and missiles near its border with Ukraine, sparking fears that an invasion is looming.

But the Russian president Vladimir Putin has denied he is planning an invasion of its neighbour.

Mr Johnson is due to have a phone call with Putin tomorrow, after a previously scheduled call on Monday was cancelled so the prime minister could take part in a debate on the Sue Gray report in the House of Commons.

When asked about the phone call, the prime minister said Putin is “holding a gun” to the head of Ukraine and trying to “undermine the immense gains” of previous decades and “redraw the security map of Europe”.

It comes as Western allies denounced any potential move by Russia, with countries threatening harsh sanctions against Moscow if there is an invasion.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has told his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, that “further invasion of Ukraine would be met with severe consequences”.