Hill has been struggling with a foot injury, while Lawes is still yet to complete the return to play protocols for concussion.

Neither player took part in training on Tuesday, and they will not be available for the match at Murrayfield this weekend. England confirmed Lawes will remain with the squad as he continues progressing through those protocols.

Prop Joe Marler, who has recovered from Covid-19, will be fit though.

“Joe will be okay for Saturday. He trained flat out today,” said England forwards coach Matt Proudfoot. “I had a scrummaging session with Joe and he’s looking good.

“Courtney is still going through his return to play processes and he’s progressing through that.”

Speaking specifically about Lawes, Proudfoot had been hopeful the forward would be available to face Scotland.

He added: “I think we’ve got to follow the process.

“With concussion it’s very important that you follow that process. If we have one per cent of doubt then he won’t play.

“He’s raring to go and has been progressing nicely through what’s he’s been asked to do and through what the doctor has structured him for.

“He’s right on top of it so let’s see how he goes. It’s only Tuesday today and there are still a couple of days to go.”

However, it has now been confirmed that the 32-year-old will miss out. Lawes had been earmarked to be England captain on Saturday in the absence of usual skipper Owen Farrell, who will miss the whole Six Nations with an ankle injury.

The likes of Ellis Genge, Luke Cowan-Dickie and Tom Curry have since all been mentioned as possible captains with Farrell and Lawes out, and Proudfoot thinks still England have plenty of leaders in their ranks.

“Eddie’s got a good leadership team in place. The two you have mentioned and Ellis Genge are part of that,” he said.

“Particularly in the scrummaging session today the way Ellis has led has been pleasing. Tom leads by example and with the intensity he trains at.

“Each one of those young guys who support Courtney have their own speciality in how they’re leading and I must say the intensity was really spot on today.

“I think Courtney’s style is a collaborative style of leadership. Each player has his own role to play.

“I think they try and support each other really well. It’s not a case of just one guy in the job.

“If one guy has to step in, then they are comfortable doing that because of the way they support each other.”