Aubameyang was exiled by Mikel Arteta after being stripped of the captaincy following a disciplinary breach that ultimately led to a sad end to his time at Emirates Stadium.

He has not played a minute since December, was dropped from the squad and Arteta said he failed to demonstrate the "commitment and passion" to play for the club. Clearly, their relationship was broken beyond repair.

Arteta played a key role in the £250,000-a-week deal that the forward signed in 2020 to become one of the best-paid players in the Premier League. His departure suits all parties, but the fact Arsenal have allowed him to exit on a free, leaving only Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah as their centre-forward options, shows how badly his relationship with the club had broken down.

It was not meant to end like this for Aubameyang after he scored both goals to win Arsenal the FA Cup when they beat Chelsea 2-1 at Wembley a month before he signed his new deal. But his final year and a half were, to say the least, turbulent.

Aubameyang was fined for missing a Covid test before a Europa League game, reminded of his responsibilities after getting a tattoo in lockdown and most recently punished after arriving back late from a trip abroad to visit his sick mother.

On top of that, he has had malaria, contracted Covid twice and was also sent home early from the Africa Cup of Nations by Gabon last month following a heart scare. There has also been a decline in his performances on the pitch.

The 32-year-old has not been the same player since his Wembley exploits in 2020 and his relationship with Arteta deteriorated, too.

It is a bold move by Arsenal and one that shows they are thinking long-term under Arteta.

As the Gunners are out of both domestic cups, their fixture schedule does not seem too packed, but surely Aubameyang still had something to offer? Barcelona certainly think so.

Looking to the future, though, his exit does save Arsenal around £20m in wages. That should give them greater financial flexibility in the summer, when they will need to sign at least two strikers, with both Lacazette and Nketiah out of contract.

Arsenal wanted to sign a striker in January, but their top target, Dusan Vlahovic, only had eyes for Juventus. Deals for other targets, such as Alexander Isak, Dominic Calvert-Lewin and Jonathan David were not feasible.

There is an argument Arsenal should have scrambled to get someone in, but if their recent spate of contract terminations has taught fans anything, it is that waiting for the right target is probably wise.

Making space in the wage budget will also be handy, given that Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are getting to the point where they should be rewarded with new deals.

Those feel like tasks for the summer, which is already shaping up to be a huge window for Arsenal.

They have gambled on Lacazette and Nketiah being enough to get them through until then, but the striker problem will have to be addressed at the end of the season.

The pressure will be on technical director Edu to deliver.