Shimon Hayut, the infamous Israeli “Tinder swindler” who was convicted for conning European women out of hundreds of thousands of dollars on the dating app, allegedly received an early shot of the COVID-19 vaccine after pretending to be a health care worker, the Times of Israel reported, citing local TV network Channel 12.

Tel Aviv started its mass vaccination campaign against the coronavirus disease last Saturday, and only medical staff and Israelis over 60 years old are supposed to be inoculated with the vaccine.

Thirty-year-old Hayut reportedly posted on his Instagram account on Monday a video of him being administered the vaccine at a vaccination centre in his home city of Bnei Brak, in central Israel.

Channel 12 said that the man received the vaccine without being eligible to take it by pretending to the staff of the vaccination centre to be a paramedic. It was said that he was initially denied entrance to the centre before he managed to enter among a group of health workers who had arrived to be immunized.

Commenting on the report, the so-called Tinder swindler rejected Clalit’s claims, stating that it was “a lie.” Vowing to sue the medical centre, Hayut provided his own excuse for what happened.

The man claimed that he paid the center to get an early coronavirus shot.

The man also claimed to have assisted in delivering the COVID-19 vaccines into Israel.

Shimon Hayut was released from prison earlier this year after serving one third of his 15-month sentence. In November 2019, the Tel Aviv Magistrate’s Court found him guilty of defrauding European women out of hundreds of thousands of dollars with help of dating app Tinder. He presented himself on the app and other social media platforms as Simon Leviev, the son of Russian-Israeli diamond mogul Lev Leviev, tricking wealthy women across Europe into loaning him money.

According to The Times of Israel, Israeli authorities released him from prison in May 2020 under a program aimed at reducing the prison population amid fears of a COVID-19 outbreak among inmates.