This logic applies to a great statement blanket or throw.

It doesn’t seem like a major purchase but a very good one placed artfully over the back of a sofa, or draped over the end of a bed can really lift a room and make it feel like you’ve made a much bigger change.

Arket is always a go-to for affordable homeware staples, a reversible lambswool blanket is part of a collab with Swedish artist Linnéa Andersson and costs £69. Available in green or red.

Throw blankets and quilts are warm, yes, but more than that, they’re both easy ways to add layers and tactility to a space that otherwise feels cold or unfinished. They’re the decorative cherry on top of a cake.

If your home is quite safe in terms of colour and texture, don’t be afraid to experiment with a bold pattern or knit. Slowdown Studio’s cotton throws are mood-boosters for the sofa but also look wonderful hung on the wall or stretched on a frame and used as art. Kentaro Okawara recycled cotton throw costs £245.

If you have a lot of pattern already, don’t overload the room, instead, pick out one colour and choose a quality block-coloured wool or velvet throw in that shade. The Ellsworth throw in a chequerboard pattern is made of a cashmere and lambswool blend. It costs £280 from AWL Studio at Glassette.

Norlha’s felted wool blankets are pieces to be treasured – they are handmade by local artisans on the Tibetan Plateau using incredibly soft yak wool. The ombré striped yak blanket costs £645 from Norlha at Mr Porter.

Keep your sofa blankets neatly folded over the arm or the back of the sofa (when they’re not being used to turn yourself into a human sausage roll).

Otherwise, keep a smart basket by the sofa and stash them in there, if you can be bothered to roll them to avoid creases, even better!

If your sofa is in need of some oomph, Tekla’s vibrant pink striped mohair throw is just what you need to liven things up. The striped fringed mohair and wool blanket costs £340 from Tekla at Matches.

For a throw over the end of a bed, just remember to check the size and avoid a style that’s too skimpy and narrow – you want a good amount of overhang at the sides for a neat and generous look.

If an authentic vintage American quilt is out of budget, BasShu’s patchwork quilts are the next best thing and they’re beautifully handmade in Japan. The geometric red and ecru quilt costs £246 from BasShu at Couverture & The Garbstore.

Beds generally benefit from a quilt or heavier weight wool, just to keep them looking well made and cosy.

For winter, your bed should look luxuriously layered and not like a large tablecloth has taken up residence.