Clark County, WA — As TFTP reports all too frequently, defending yourself and others in the land of the free can often be a deadly act thanks to police. In case after case, TFTP has reported on heroic individuals who have defended their families and even complete strangers only to be executed by police who show up — after the hero stopped the villain — only to shoot first and ask questions later.

The family of Vancouver Police Officer Donald Sahota learned this the hard way over the weekend. Sahota attempted to defend his family from an armed intruder and his fellow police would kill him for it.

According to police, officers responded to an armed robbery at the Chevron on Northeast 117th Avenue in Vancouver, Wash. According to a 911 caller, the suspect had entered the store, pointing a gun at the gas station clerk’s chest while demanding cash. The Clark County Sheriff’s Office said the suspect fled in a stolen dark-colored Mercedes, after robbing the store of several hundred dollars. Police intercepted the suspect traveling northbound on I-205 where a chase began for several miles.

“I was working my till at 8:15 p.m. Dude walks through the door, pulls out a pistol right out of his pocket, aims it at my chest holding his hand over the slide,” the clerk said.

After a miles-long chase, the suspect ditched the vehicle and happened to show up at Sahota’s home. According to police, the suspect banged on the door, claiming he was in a car crash and needed help.

Sahota — bravely protecting his family from an armed robber — grabbed his gun and went outside to confront the suspect.

According to police, a struggle ensued and Sahota was stabbed by the suspect before losing control of his pistol. After knocking the off-duty cop to the ground, the suspect went inside Sahota’s home, where his wife was hiding.

The off-duty cop then picked up his firearm and ran back into the home to stop the suspect. Unfortunately, however, as Sahota ran inside, Clark County officers arrived on the scene to shoot first and ask questions later.

As Sahota tried to save his wife, he was gunned down by responding officers who mistook him for the suspect. Sahota was hit several times and died as medics tried saving him.

The unnamed suspect was taken into custody without incident after police killed the officer who was trying to stop him. According to OPB, the incident is being treated as an officer-involved shooting and is being investigated by the Lower Columbia Major Crimes Team.

Sahota is survived by his wife and their two children.

“Early Sunday morning we lost a member of our police community. I am heartbroken by the loss of Officer Donald Sahota. My thoughts are with his family, friends, and all those he served with,” said Vancouver Mayor Anne McEnerny-Ogle. “The sudden death of Officer Sahota is devastating, and we don’t have all the details of what occurred. I hope the community will join me as we hold Officer Sahota’s family and our law enforcement community in our thoughts and hearts.”

Sadly, as mentioned above, police officers killing heroes is not too uncommon. As TFTP reported last year, Johnny Hurley saved the lives of countless individuals, including police officers, only to be gunned down by cops who showed up after he stopped a mass shooting.

In Hurley’s case, police have video evidence showing everything that has happened. However, they refuse to release the one portion of the video they used to justify the actions of the officer who killed him.