All Global Research articles can be read in 51 languages by activating the “Translate Website” drop down menu on the top banner of our home page (Desktop version).

Visit and follow us on Instagram at @globalresearch_crg.

According to reports from Israel, the population there is 90% vaccinated and boostered with some on 4 jabs, and hospitals are full of Omicron patients and so many doctors and nurses are themselves sick that there is no one to care for the patients.

What is going on?

First of all, here is total proof that the Covid vaccines do not protect, so why are they still being pushed using tyrannical methods as protection? It makes no sense other than the profits of pharmaceutical companies and the power it gives governments to dispense with civil liberty.

Second, according to numerous reports from countries, what is called the Omicron variant is not deadly and seldom hospitalizes those infected. So why is it that in Israel hospitals cannot cope with Omicron patients?

Can it be that so many hospitalized vaccinated people are suffering from adverse reactions to the vaccine? Medical scientists have established that the mRNA vaccines cause our immune system to attack our vital organs. The extent of this is difficult to nail down for two reasons. One is that in the US, for example, hospitals are discouraged from reporting vaccine-associated injuries and deaths to the adverse reaction reporting system. The other is that the Fauci-Big Pharma controlled medical establishment refuses to acknowledge that adverse reactions are not “rare” but widespread. Enormous increases in heart, lung, neurological an other problems have been reported in vaccinated populations, and the rollout of vaccination has been followed by the unprecedented event of children and healthy athletes dropping dead from heart attacks. There is no other explanation but the vaccines.

If the evidence that independent medical scientists have found is correct that the vaccine turns our immune system into a weapon against our vital organs, countries, such as Israel, with most of their populations vaccinated will lose a significant percentage of their populations to injuries and death.

It is clearly medical malpractice to continue to vaccinate before examining the evidence provided by independent scientists. All vaccination should cease until open and uncensored examination of the evidence either refutes or confirms the independent scientists. The scientists on Fauci’s and Big Pharma’s payrolls obviously have conflicts of interest. As all of the public health authorities, such as WHO, NIH, CDC, and regulatory authorities such as FDA are themselves compromised by their financial relationships with Big Pharma, and as the presstitutes censor and deplatform the evidence of independent scientists, there seem to be no way to stop the insane and irresponsible malpractice that is the heart and soul of the Covid protocol.

Humanity is being driven over the cliff by malpractice that is called “science.”

Note to readers: Please click the share buttons above or below. Follow us on Instagram, @globalresearch_crg. Forward this article to your email lists. Crosspost on your blog site, internet forums. etc.

Dr. Paul Craig Roberts writes on his blog site, PCR Institute for Political Economy, where this article was originally published. He is a regular contributor to Global Research.