GREENWICH — After a large spike in new cases of COVID-19 at the start of January, Greenwich schools reported just 26 new cases on Tuesday among students and staff as the numbers continue to decline significantly across the district, according to the latest statistics on the district’s online tracker.

“We remain cautiously optimistic, but as we have seen, the virus has been somewhat unpredictable at times,” said Jonathan Supranowitz, director of communications for Greenwich Public Schools.

The Greenwich school district reported a total of 1,422 cases of COVID-19 for January, which is about 70 percent of the 1,992 total cases reported since classes began Sept. 1, 2020. That compares with 700 cases of COVID-19 in the entire 2020-21 school year.

When COVID-19 numbers soared in early January as students returned from the holidays, the district tightened some of its protocols, including a ban on nonessential visitors to its school buildings.

“The district is constantly monitoring how we can adjust when spikes go up or down. Returning from December’s break, the district tightened up for the month of January as cases were very high,” Superintendent of Schools Toni Jones said in an email to families last week. “However, cases are trending down significantly and (this week) we will begin February by loosening back up again. Athletics will welcome back more spectators and clubs will return to in-person.”

As of Tuesday, the number of active cases is down to just 24 across the district, compared with 37 active cases reported last Friday, according to the tracker.

Active cases of COVID-19 were reported in 11 school buildings, with all reports in single digits. Greenwich High, the district’s largest school, had the most cases of COVID-19, with five, according to the tracker.

Among the other schools, Glenville and Western reported three active cases each of COVID-19, with two active cases each at Eastern, Cos Cob, Hamilton Avenue, North Mianus and Old Greenwich. There was one active case each at Central, Julian Curtiss and North Street, according to the tracker.

No active cases were reported at the International School at Dundee, New Lebanon, Parkway and Riverside.

Of the 24 currently active cases of COVID-19 in the Greenwich Public Schools, there were 14 cases among students, nine cases among teachers and one case in a service provider, according to the tracker. No cases were reported in administrators and nonteaching staff members.

A number of families in the Greenwich school district are heavily impacted by COVID-19, with 317 families reporting 693 cases during the school year, according to the information on the tracker.

Students will get another break from classes this month, as Greenwich schools go on winter break from Feb. 14 to Feb. 18.

When students returned to the classrooms in January, reports of new cases of COVID-19 spiked in the district as well as across the town and the state, according to the tracker.

Classrooms were closed for 11 days for the holidays, during a time when COVID-19 surged in the community. When classes restarted on Jan. 3, there was a increase in reports of cases from the holidays.

In the twice-a-week updates, Greenwich schools reported 392 new cases on Jan. 4 — the largest single report during the entire pandemic. That was followed by 349 new cases reported on Jan. 7; 227 new cases reported on Jan. 11; 168 new cases reported on Jan. 14; 71 new cases reported on Jan. 19; 61 new cases reported on Jan. 25; and 40 new cases reported on Jan. 28, reflecting the steady decline after the initial spike.

The district updates the online tracker every Tuesday and Friday to keep the community informed on the pandemic.

Compared with January and its 1,422 cases of COVID-19, the totals were smaller in the first four months of the year in the Greenwich schools. There were 392 cases of COVID-19 reported in December, 65 cases reported in November, 29 cases reported in October and 58 reported cases in September.

Last week, the Greenwich Public Schools made a change in the online tracker, eliminating the detailing sections on how the virus was transmitted. The tracker now lists only “current active cases at the top left, with the number of resolved reported cases below that. It then lists the total number of reported cases in the 2021-22 school year, which now totals 1,992.