About 6,500 people were told to evacuate their homes in Winston-Salem, North Carolina today, when a fire broke out overnight at a fertilizer plant that Winston-Salem Fire Chief Trey Mayo said contained “an estimated 5,000 tons of finished fertilizer.”

Taken in isolation, this news story would not be very alarming in terms of its impact on food production in the U.S., as fires at fertilizer plants do happen from time to time and are not that rare. The main focus of this news story being reported in the corporate media is the safety of those close to the fire, as it should be.

But when one considers the fact that the U.S. still imports a significant portion of its fertilizer from China, which stopped exporting phosphate to the U.S. in September last year to allegedly save their supplies for their own farmers, and that potassium chloride from potash comes mainly from Saskatchewan, Canada, where truckers are now protesting COVID vaccine mandates with little to no traffic coming across the borders which is fueling major concerns about fertilizer shortages, and that on top of all that many state organizations for corn, wheat and soybean producers sent a letter to the second largest fertilizer company in the U.S. last December complaining that “tariff barriers” from the second largest fertilizer company in the U.S. were preventing them from buying fertilizers from Morocco and Russia, suggests that perhaps something much more sinister is in play here, with potential disastrous results later this year.

When the United States was founded in the 1700s, about 90% of the population was employed in agriculture. By the time Abraham Lincoln became President, that number had dropped down below 50%.

Today, less than 1% of the U.S. population is employed in agriculture, and just a handful of companies control the food supply, here in the U.S. and around the world.

Our agricultural system is heavily dependent on technology today, as mass production of food has caused a major depletion of our soil, which is dependent on fertilizers to grow crops today: no fertilizer, no crops, no food.

Last year I published an article by Sam Parker from Behind the News Network that referred to the Globalist Wall Street Billionaires and Bankers as the “Global Food Cartel,” where he wrote: “Genocide is an intent of this system, not a side-effect.”

It is, by far, the best treatise I have read on this Global Food Cartel, as he names names and exposes their true intentions. If you have not read it yet, please consider it must reading!

Unmasking The Global Food Cartel: Is Massive Starvation and Population Reduction Their Next Move?

And if you find it hard to believe that the people running this country, who are Wall Street Billionaires and Bankers, and NOT politicians, would never intentionally starve people to death by destroying our food chain, then you are ignorant of world history, as this has been the modus operandi for centuries to start wars and kill off major segments of the population.

Here in the U.S. we are already in the midst of a planned genocide, as the COVID-19 shots have killed hundreds of thousands, and are in the process of rendering an entire generation infertile. See:

GENOCIDE! Military Medical Whistleblowers Reveal Miscarriages, Birth Defects, and Infertility Rates Exploded in 2021 Following COVID Vaccines

And yesterday, I published Part 1 of a documentary that showed how the Globalists accomplished this in Russia during WWII, where the Bolsheviks killed tens of millions of people, by cutting off their food supply and starving people to death, leading to widespread cannibalism. See:

Documentary Exposes the “Other Holocaust” of Christians in Russia at the Hands of Bolsheviks

This is the Zionist, Communist playbook, and it is unfolding before us today here in the 21st Century, and most people are too brainwashed by the corporate media to even notice.

War with Russia over the Ukraine, an all too familiar hotspot where food production and oil transportation affects millions of people in Europe, seems imminent now.

Americans ignorant of world history are allowing this to happen here in the U.S., and we will probably not see unrest in this country until the shelves of the grocery stores go bare. But by then, it may be too late to stop the carnage.

Understand the Times We are Currently Living Through

Identifying the Luciferian Globalists Implementing the New World Order – Who are the “Jews”?

Insider Exposes Freemasonry as the World’s Oldest Secret Religion and the Luciferian Plans for The New World Order

One in Christ: Abolishing Discrimination and Class Warfare in the Messianic New World Order

Nationalism and the Ten Commandments – Patriotism or Idolatry? “Liberty” or Slavery?

The Most Important Truth about the Coming “New World Order” Almost Nobody is Discussing

The Seal and Mark of God is Far More Important than the “Mark of the Beast” – Are You Prepared for What’s Coming?

To “Save” America will the Foundation of the Corporate American Christian Church Need to be Destroyed?

The Satanic Roots to Modern Medicine – The Mark of the Beast?

Medicine: Idolatry in the Twenty First Century – 6-Year-Old Article More Relevant Today than the Day it was Written

Having problems receiving our newsletters? See:

How to Beat Internet Censorship and Create Your Own Newsfeed

We Are Now on Minds.com, MeWe, and Telegram. Video channel at Bitchute.

If our website is seized and shut down, find us on Minds.com, MeWe, and Telegram, as well as Bitchute for further instructions about where to find us.

If you use the TOR Onion browser, here are the links and corresponding URLs to use in the TOR browser to find us on the Dark Web: Health Impact News, Vaccine Impact, Medical Kidnap, Created4Health, CoconutOil.com.