GREENWICH — With the town seeking to fill the post soon, the Board of Estimate & Taxation appeared receptive to a plan to move the position of emergency management director into the Greenwich Emergency Medical Service.

But there were questions about a plan to add a dozen firefighters to the town’s payroll at a Tuesday morning meeting of the BET Budget Committee.

The new emergency management director would be hired on a contract with GEMS, an independent agency that has a contract with the town to provide services.

The BET’s Budget Committee, as part of its evaluation of the proposed 2022-23 municipal budget, is considering a total allocation of $90,000 for the position, an increase of $16,900. The position is part of First Selectman Fred Camillo’s department.

“We envision this job being a bit broader going forward to include things like grant writing and training,” Camillo said. “We think it would have a significant payback for the town, and it’s not that much of a difference.”

The town is looking to move quickly to make a hire, Town Administrator Ben Branyan told the committee.

“We don’t want to wait,” Branyan said. “We have current year funding so we’re looking at engaging in March. That is the expected hiring time.”

The $90,000 allocation would be payment in the new fiscal year, which begins July 1, Branyan said. The first selectman’s budget has enough money to fund the position for the rest of the current fiscal year, he said.

“This is the most cost effective (option) for the town, and I think we’re going to get additional focus and service on things that we need, such as training, tabletop exercises and pursuing of grants,” Branyan said. “I think we all recognize that emergency management is no longer just about inclement weather. It is also about pandemic and all the security issues that go along with it.”

The new hire would succeed Dan Warzoha, who died last August. He had served as as emergency management director under contract with the town since 2007. Since Warzoha’s death, Chief of Police James Heavey has served as interim director.

The position had been under the management of GEMS, between 2003 and 2005, Branyan said.

The main stakeholders, including Camillo, the fire and police chiefs, are on board with the idea, Branyan said, as is GEMS Executive Director Tracy Schietinger.

Schietinger told the committee this would be an additional position within GEMS — not new duties for a current member.

The position would be under GEMS, Branyan said, but the new emergency management director would take direction from the first selectman.

“We are in the process of finalizing that job description and the scope of services and what that looks like,” he said.

There was no major pushback by BET members during Tuesday’s meeting.

“I support this critical function,” Budget Committee member Laura Erickson said to Branyan. “I’m glad you arrived at this solution.”

Committee Chair Leslie Tarkington said she wanted to make sure there was a focus on security as well as response to storms and other emergencies.

“This position was a result of 9/11 and the communities got together and understood this function was critically important,” Tarkington said. “We could have a homeland security issue that is not storm or pandemic related.”

Ultimately, the Budget Committee will make a recommendation on the budget allocation in early March. The full BET will vote on March 31.

Also in his budget plan, Camillo is requesting $448,000 to hire four new firefighters later this year, followed by the hiring of four more firefighters each in two future years, bringing the total to 12 new hires.

More firefighters are needed to meet the recommendations made by the Matrix Consulting Group, which studied the fire department’s response and coverage, Camillo said.

“I know this sticks out, but we’re doing this to avoid budget shock all at once,” he said. The town did not include any new firefighter positions in the 2021-22 budget, Camillo said. But the town has added a new fire chief and an assistant chief, and “we wanted to give them a year to look at the report and see what they can do about getting response times down,” he said.

Camillo said he has been in touch with the fire department’s command staff and “was confident this is the direction we need to go in.”

Tarkington indicated some concern that even with the new hires, projected overtime costs for the fire department was projected to increase.

“I would have expected that with this additional hiring over time (this) might have declined,” Tarkington said.

The town is also looking at a construction project to expand the backcountry’s Round Hill fire station so it can post career firefighters there along with volunteers in 2025.

“The thinking has always been” that this would reduce response times in Northeast and Northwest Greenwich, Camillo said.

Further discussion on the hires is expected when the Greenwich Fire Department meets with the BET Budget Committee on Feb. 8.