GREENWICH — Health authorities and public officials are sounding the alarm about a major blood shortage — declaring a “blood crisis alert.”

At a public briefing at Greenwich Hospital attended by medical staff, state and local officials, Greenwich Hospital President Diane Kelly called the current blood shortage “an extremely serious situation.”

Addressing the public, Kelly said, “Donors give the gift of life, it could not be more true.... We need people to step up, we need people to donate blood.” She noted that blood-donor centers were “a very safe environment” and take precautions against the transmission of the coronavirus pandemic.

Lt. Gov. Susan Bysiewicz said that area hospitals were down to a one-day of supply of blood, when a five-day supply was considered the standard.

“This is a really important public announcement we make today,” she said. “We have one of the worst blood shortages, in our country and in our state, right now, in yet another wave of global pandemic. Please, please, please roll up your sleeves and give blood.”

Blood supplies typically run low during the winter months, and Mary Barneby, CEO of the American Red Cross Greater New York Region, said this year’s winter shortage was particularly acute.

“This is the most blood shortage in over a decade,” she said.

She said the Saturday snowstorm that hit the region canceled the planned collection of 370 blood units. In January, some 300 blood drives around the state were canceled by heavy weather, she said. “The blood shortage is a continuing health emergency,” Barneby said.

Dr. Kisha Mitchell Richards, director of pathology and laboratory medicine at Greenwich Hospital, said the medical administrators had been “much more stringent” about monitoring the allocation of blood to patients. She said an assessment was made “day to day” on the distribution of blood and related medical supplies.

A cancer patient, Darien resident Todd Koorbusch described how vital a steady supply of blood was for his treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a blood cancer.

“If it wasn’t for the American Red Cross, my wife wouldn’t have a husband, and my kids wouldn’t have a father,” he said.

He said he received a steady supply of blood in the months before and after a major surgical procedure that defeated the cancer in his body. Speaking as a cancer survivor, Koorbusch, a Greenwich native, said, “Appreciate what you have today, not what you want tomorrow.”

First Selectman Fred Camillo said the public-health workers and medical staff were often under-appreciated.

“Take a few minutes to remember all their efforts, and go out and give blood,” he said.

In Greenwich, a blood drive is being held from 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Friday at the First Presbyterian Church of Greenwich, 1 W. Putnam Ave. Another will be held at the YMCA of Greenwich at 50 East Putnam on Monday. A Red Cross facility at 99 Indian Field Road offers regular blood-donation services.

Donations may be scheduled at www.redcrossblood.org or by calling 1-800-733-2767. Authorities said blood donations would be needed in coming weeks, as well.