Oh, come on. She works for a show that put itself on the map by promoting 9/11 conspiracies.

Holocaust revisionism was just the logical next step.

I can’t imagine that she’ll be sent packing over what she said, and not just because she’s the least obnoxious liberal on the panel even when she’s babbling about how Roman Polanski may have committed rape but not “rape-rape.” It’s because she showed contrition by apologizing for her comments on yesterday’s show.

…after she dug the hole deeper on Stephen Colbert’s program last night, I mean.

Out: Wondering who’ll replace Meghan McCain on “The View.” In: Wondering who’ll replace Whoopi Goldberg on “The View.”

There is growing fury inside ABC over Whoopi Goldberg’s controversial Holocaust claims, with insiders demanding that her apology isn’t enough and she must be fired… “ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction. The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s–t,’” one ABC insider told us. “Why does Whoopi seemingly get a pass when others don’t? Perhaps this time she won’t. Many at the network – including her fellow hosts – believe Whoopi is too controversial now for the show.” The insider also told Page Six that the situation “isn’t just going to blow over.” “This will cast a shadow over everything for a while. Even Joy Behar was heard saying backstage that Whoopi is ‘dead wrong’ and may not ever recover from this,” the source said. “Joy found this particularly troubling and couldn’t believe Whoopi wouldn’t stand corrected until she was forced.”

“Insider” is such a vague term. The receptionist at network HQ presumably would count as an “insider.”

But in case there are powerful insiders who really do want to see her gone, she showed her contrition again at the start of today’s show:

Then she invited the head of the Anti-Defamation League — whose own woke definition of “racism” would exclude the Holocaust unless one defines Jews as “people of color” — to remonstrate with her live on the air:

What I can’t tell is how much of Goldberg’s hot take on the Holocaust is due to political blinders and how much is due to genuine historical ignorance. If you watched her segment with Colbert, you came away thinking it was political. She emphasized that it’s hard for her, as a black American, to conceive of racial conflict between groups whose skin color is similar.

But then you reflect on the most basic facts about Nazism, like their obsession with Aryans as a “master race” whose destiny was to rule over others, and you wonder: What the hell did she think their persecution was about? Did she miss that day in school?

As Greenblatt points out to her, it’s ironic that she made her remarks on yesterday’s show during a conversation about “Maus,” which begins with this epigraph from Hitler: “The Jews are undoubtedly a race, but they are not human.”

Has she heard of the Nuremberg laws and Nazi beliefs about the “untermenschen”?

This bit from the Colbert interview is also deeply weird:

Colbert asked Goldberg, “Have you come to understand that the Nazis saw it as race? Because asking the Nazis, they would say, ‘Yes, it’s a racial issue.’” She responded: “The Nazis lied. It wasn’t. They had issues with ethnicity, not with race, because most of the Nazis were white people and most of the people they were attacking were white people. So to me, I’m thinking, ‘How can you say it’s about race if you are fighting each other?’”

“Fighting each other”? Did Whoopi miss the whole week on the Holocaust in school?

Too bad “Drunk History” isn’t still on the air. I’d pay to watch her do six shots and then try to explain how it all went down.

I’ll leave you with this.