The newly released Wells Fargo Reflect ℠ Card offers up to a full 21-month 0% APR intro period. That's the longest interest-free period available on the market today , which is the most important factor you'll need to consider.

We're declaring a new Best in Class winner in the Balance Transfer category to kick off the new year.

Why We Rate This The Top Balance Transfer Card

Balance transfer credit cards are basically measured by a single standard — time. It's all about how much time they give you to pay down debt without interest. By that standard, the Wells Fargo Reflect℠ Card's 21-month 0% APR intro period on both purchases and balance transfers is the longest of any card available on the market today. You start with an 18 month 0% intro APR period from account opening, then as long as you continue to make on-time minimum payments, that 0% APR extends up to 3 months for a grand total of 21 months interest-free.

What we're seeing is the Wells Fargo Reflect℠ Card drive interest from people who…

… Want to delay initial interest payments on new purchases

… Have an existing balance they want to transfer

… Need a time window to pay off their balance before they start paying interest

If you were to sign up online for the card today you'd have until Oct. 2023 before you start getting hit with interest charges. It's like taking a 21-month vacation from paying interest!

More than just a balance transfer card

The longest 0% Intro APR period on the market is reason enough to say yes to this card. On top of that, Wells Fargo offers a few more perks that make this our new must-have among Balance Transfer cards:
• No annual fee. The card is designed to help you save money. You'll automatically avoid any annual or upfront fees.
• Free Cell Phone Protection up to $600 if damaged or stolen when cardholders pay their monthly cell phone bill with their Reflect Card (subject to a $25 deductible). With the price of a typical cell phone in the hundreds of dollars, having some sort of insurance is a good idea.
• Earn Cash Back through My Wells Fargo Deals. I can login to my Wells Fargo account online or through the mobile app to view and activate deals for shopping, dining, and experiences — Earning an additional 10% or even 20% back on eligible purchases is a really unique perk, especially if you take advantage of these kinds of offers regularly.
• Built-in Zero Liability Protection to ensure cardholders are not held responsible for any unauthorized transactions, when reported promptly.

Who Should Get This Card

The Wells Fargo Reflect℠ Card is a great fit for those who want plenty of time to pay down debt or finance a large purchase, without being charged interest.

This is why I've personally signed up for this card and recommend it to all my friends. This combination of features - the 21-month vacation from paying interest, $600 in cell phone protection, cash back potential and no annual fee - is too good to pass up. We don't know how longer they'll be offering it.

Remember, for Balance Transfer cards it's all about time. We suggest not wasting any time waiting to apply for the premier balance transfer card on the market. Then taking your time to pay down your balance with no additional interest for up to 21 months.

Simply click here to apply and find out if you are approved. You could get a decision in 60 seconds or less. Why wait?