After three Senate Democrats introduced legislation on Tuesday that would overhaul a 135-year-old law, Donald Trump issued a statement to let them know they’ve been caught in another lie.

“So pathetic to watch the Unselect Committee of political hacks, liars, and traitors work so feverishly to alter the Electoral College Act so that a Vice President cannot ensure the honest results of the election, when just one year ago they said that ‘the Vice President has absolutely no right to ensure the true outcome or results of an election.’ In other words, they lied, and the Vice President did have this right or, more pointedly, could have sent the votes back to various legislators for reassessment after so much fraud and irregularities were found.”

Next, Trump focused on Democrat House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, writing, “If it were sent back to the legislators, or if Nancy Pelosi, who is in charge of Capitol security, had taken my recommendation and substantially increased security, there would have been no ‘January 6’ as we know it!”

“Therefore, the Unselect Committee should be investigating why Nancy Pelosi did such a poor job of overseeing security and why Mike Pence did not send back the votes for recertification or approval, in that it has now been shown that he clearly had the right to do so!” he concluded.

The legislation, put forward by Democrats, deals with the Electoral Count Act of 1887 (ECA) and its guidelines for counting and certifying Electoral College votes after presidential elections.

For the past 135 years, the vice president has had the power of presiding over the Electoral College certification process.

The long-standing legislation became a focus of Democrats after Donald Trump tried to get then-Vice President Mike Pence to send back the votes for recertification or approval following the 2020 election.

The Democrat proposal seeks to change the law’s language to ensure the vice president’s role is limited only to “opening electoral vote ballots as required by the Constitution.”

Also included in the proposal is an increase in the number of lawmakers needed to object to a state’s presidential electors while also limiting the reasons they can object under.

The left is scrambling to “fix” an issue they claimed never existed in the first place!