Canada’s “Freedom Convoy 2022” protest has raised nearly $10 million since its creation on January 14th, considerably more money than any of the nation’s top political parties raised during the last election.

At the time of writing this article, the Freedom Convoy’s GoFundMe page has raked in $9,725,140.

This is a massive fundraising feat, especially considering the mainstream media and left-wing politicians’ portrayal of the group as a fringe minority.

Last week, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said, “The small fringe minority of people who are on their way to Ottawa, or who are holding unacceptable views that they are expressing, do not represent the views of Canadians who have been there with each other, who know that following the science and stepping up to protect each other is the best way to continue to ensure our freedoms, our rights, our values as a country.”

Of course, since Trudeau tried putting down the massive grassroots movement, he’s allegedly tested positive for Covid and gone into quarantine at an undisclosed location.

According to Breitbart, Trudeau’s Liberal Party of Canada raised during the last quarter of 2021, with the opposition Conservative Party of Canada ranking a close second with over $3m during the same period.

Money raised by the Canadian trucker group will go towards aiding them with the cost of the journey, the cost of fuel, for food if needed and for shelter, if needed.

A statement posted to the Freedom Convoy fundraising page is a powerful call to action, asking all Canadians of every race, creed and color to unite peacefully in defiance of the current administration’s globalist agenda.

To our Fellow Canadians, the time for political over reach is over. Our current government is implementing rules and mandates that are destroying the foundation of our businesses, industries and livelihoods. Canadians have been integral to the fabric of humanity in many ways that have shaped the planet. We are a peaceful country that has helped protect nations across the globe from tyrannical governments who oppressed their people, and now it seems it is happening here. We are taking our fight to the doorsteps of our Federal Government and demanding that they cease all mandates against its people. Small businesses are being destroyed, homes are being destroyed, and people are being mistreated and denied fundamental necessities to survive. It’s our duty as Canadians to put an end to this mandates. It is imperative that this happens because if we don’t our country will no longer be the country we have come to love. We are doing this for our future Generations and to regain our lives back. We are asking for Donations to help with the costs of fuel first, and hopefully food and lodgings to help ease the pressures of this arduous task. It’s a small price to pay for our freedoms. We thank you all for your Donations and know that you are helping reshape this once beautiful country back to the way it was. In order for your generous donations to flow smoothly, the good people at Go Fund Me will be sending donations directly to our bulk fuel supplier and are working out the details now which means your hard earned money is going to straight to who it was meant for and need not flow through anyone else. Any left over donations will be donated to a credible Veterans organization which will be chosen by the donors.

The establishment is terrified of a true working-class movement exposing its anti-human agenda.