The employment insurance section of the Government of Canada website is shown on a laptop in April 2020. (Jesse Johnston/The Canadian Press)

Over 1,600 people who received Canada Emergency Response Benefit payments — totalling nearly $12 million — had mailing addresses outside Canada, according to newly tabled government figures.

The figures were tabled in the House of Commons on Monday in response to an order paper question from Conservative MP Jamie Schmale.

Of the 1,610 individuals, 720 had a mailing address in the United States; 90 in the United Kingdom; 80 in both France and India; 60 in Australia; and 20 in China, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, and the Philippines.

There were 420 people who received payments in “all other countries,” but “countries with fewer than 20 beneficiaries have been grouped into a single category to ensure confidentiality,” the government response notes.

All counts were rounded to the nearest 10.

The Canada Emergency Response Benefit (CERB) program ran from March 15 to Sept. 26, 2020 after the COVID-19 Emergency Response Act bill passed on March 25, 2020 with support from all parties. Applicants received $2,000 for every four-week period.

To qualify, residents had to have stopped working or lost hours because of the pandemic; earned at least $5,000 in the 2019 tax year or previous 12 months; did not quit their job voluntarily; and did not earn more than $1,000 per month in employment or self-employment income.

Eligibility was later expanded to seasonal workers, those who’d exhausted their employment insurance benefits, and those who’d returned to work but weren’t earning more than $1,000 per month.

Payments going to people outside Canada doesn’t mean the program was poorly administered or that someone committed fraud, said Jane Deeks, press secretary to Employment Minister Carla Qualtrough.

“Having a mailing address outside of Canada did not disqualify a person from being eligible for this support,” she said.

“This is because, for example, individuals working in Canada through the Temporary Foreign Worker Program including the Global Talent Stream, or recent newcomers to Canada and individuals working in Canada with temporary work permits, often have a mailing address outside of Canada.”

“Resident in Canada does not mean present at all times in Canada. As long as these folks met the legal requirements of the program … then no one has broken any rules,” said Jennifer Robson, a professor of political management at Carleton University.

These individuals received an average of $7,400 from CERB, equal to nearly four claim periods, which is less than the average CERB claimant, Robson said.

The data is from late November 2021, the response said. Because the data is “updated daily to reflect new beneficiaries, additional or completed benefits, changes in rules, etc. … it should be noted that this table may not match previously published information.”

“There are a few reasons to explain these differences: For example, cases now have a more recent address in our data holding; cases cover a situation where the CERB benefit was changed to another benefit type; cases where the CERB benefits were reclaimed,” it said.

“The paragraph noting that some cases include claims that were later converted to other benefits suggests that some of these were people likely parents trying to claim mat/parental EI benefits who got misdirected to claim CERB. Likewise, that text makes clear that some have a mailing address that has since changed,” Robson said.