Trucks are blocked by police barricades as a rally against COVID-19 restrictions, which began as a cross-country convoy protesting a federal vaccine mandate for truckers continues in Ottawa on Tuesday. (Patrick Doyle/The Canadian Press)

The House of Commons unanimously passed four motions on Tuesday denouncing the hateful language and behaviour of some demonstrators in Ottawa, before the Liberals voted against a Tory motion that condemned the use of blackface.

Demonstrators have been in Ottawa since Friday to protest COVID-19 restrictions, especially the vaccine mandate for cross-border truckers. Some were spotted carrying swastikas and Confederate flags.

The motions condemned: the use of Nazi imagery; the display of “hateful and harmful Islamophobic rhetoric”; the display of racist flags as “shameful”; and the harassment of Ottawa homeowners with Pride flags on their property.

Immediately after the motions were introduced by four Liberal MPs and were carried, Conservative MP Arnold Viersen rose and sought to unanimously pass a motion saying the House deplores the wearing of blackface.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has dressed up and been photographed in blackface on multiple occasions. He apologized after the photos came to light during the 2019 election campaign.

Liberal MP Mark Gerretsen voted against the motion, which wasn’t carried.

Had it known about it in advance, the government wouldn’t have had a problem with the motion, said Kevin Lamoreux, the government House leader’s parliamentary secretary.

Gerretesen said there were no prior discussions of Viersen’s motion, although the Tory MP didn’t preface his motion by saying it had been discussed, as the other motions stated.

But by seeking unanimous consent, Viersen was implying that party leaders had in fact discussed his motion ahead of time, Gerretesen argued.

“It’s not a hard question,” Conservative MPs yelled from across the floor.

The events in the House follow Trudeau saying on Monday that he “won’t give in” to the protestors in downtown Ottawa, and won’t meet with them because they promote hate and are anti-science.

“We won’t give in to those who fly racist flags,” he added on Tuesday.

Trudeau tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday morning and is now isolating in the capital region in accordance with health protocols.

Some Conservative MPs joined the protests on Saturday, and were denounced by their Liberal colleagues because of the racist messages some protesters were displaying.

Tory MPs shot back that their leader has worn blackface.