After an extended stint in the corporate sector, Jonathan Moser, a former aide to then-prime minister Paul Martin, has landed at Rubicon Strategy.



During his tenure on Parliament Hill, Moser spent time at the office of former Health minister Pierre Pettigrew before moving to Martin’s office.



“Patience is a virtue is a big theme of mine,” he remarked about his time on the Hill in an interview with iPolitics.

After the Liberals were ousted after the 2006 election of Stephen Harper’s Conservatives, Moser headed to the private sector with stints at Dow Chemical and LafargeHolcim, where he ran their government affairs, environment and public affairs practices, respectively.



Moser is also a leader in environmental and social governance (ESG), spending over a decade pioneering environmentally and socially responsible practices for business through his own public affairs practice.

He is now joining Rubicon as senior vice president and ESG practice lead where he said he will leverage his knowledge in the field to build out the organization as a leader in the sector.

“I like the fact that the firm has been a disruptor and wants to differentiate itself in a sector that is becoming crucial for corporations to be successful,” he told iPolitics about his choice to join Rubicon.

He is based out of Calgary, making him Rubicon’s first employee in western Canada.

“There’s no denying that’s where my roots are,” he told iPolitics.

“But my pan-Canadian network will come into play as we grow.”

Last Week:Comings and Goings: Sandstone and Sutherland add key staff

In Quebec, Leo Torosian has signed on to Impact Public Affairs as director of their francophone and Quebec public affairs.

After spending several years working for a member of Quebec’s national assembly, he will continue to support clients with Quebec political affairs, according to a Twitter statement from Impact.

His resume also includes stints at the City of Montreal and, further afield, with the Armenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Looking further east, Robyn McIsaac has joined Crestview’s Halifax office, where she will continue in her field of communications and public affairs.

McIsaac’s career in communications began in 1998, when she worked for Nova Scotia’s provincial government. She later handled public affairs for two gaming organizations in the province — the Nova Scotia Gaming Corporation and All-in Gaming — and is the founder of her own PR firm, PRHive.

Please send your tips about people in the government relations scene on the move to [email protected]