The Rainbow Bridge border crossing in Niagara Falls, Ont., to the U.S. (Rene Johnston/ Toronto Star)

There are “significant gaps” in Canada’s border security, and the biggest are at rail crossings, says the head of a national customs and immigration union.

On Tuesday, the House of Commons’ Public Safety and National Security committee continued its investigation of gun violence in Canada and gun smuggling across the U.S. border.

The committee has been studying the problem since December in response to more gun crime. From 2010 to 2020, firearm-related offences, such as illegally pointing a gun or using one, went up 84 per cent, according to a Statistics Canada report on police-reported crime, and they were 15 per cent higher in 2020 than in 2019.

Canada’s 8,900-km border with the U.S. is the longest undefended land border in the world, but there are significant gaps in its security because it’s short resources and staff, said Mark Weber, the national president of the Customs and Immigration Union.

For instance, cargo trains coming from the U.S. through Fort Frances, a small community in northwestern Ontario, travel roughly 400 kilometres to Winnipeg, often with no fencing around the tracks, before they’re inspected. That’s because first ports of entry like Fort Frances don’t have the staff or infrastructure to do inspections, he said.

Even when trains do arrive in Winnipeg, the facility there can’t do a full search, Weber testified to the committee.

Another 1,000 customs officers are needed, plus “building infrastructure to allow us to do those searches,” he said.

Conducting inspections involves “more than just opening the door and having a peek inside,” Weber continued.

There are 27 entry points by rail across the country, according to the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). Some of CN Rail’s trains cross from Minnesota at Fort Frances, while CP Rail trains go straight to Winnipeg, according to the two companies’ network maps.

The CBSA and RCMP also told the committee what they’ve done to fight gun crime, and stressed the need for law-enforcement agencies to collaborate more.

The CBSA says it seized more than 1,000 guns and gun parts at the border last year.

About 400 street gangs are in the drug trade in Canada, and most are violent, said Stephen White, the RCMP’s deputy commissioner of specialized policing services.

Ontario is the only province that submits guns used in violent crimes for tracing to discover their origin.

More than 30,000 firearms were seized across the country last year, but investigators traced only a few of them, White said.

Ottawa has given the RCMP extra money to do more tracing, which can serve as crucial evidence in an investigation, he said.

“(Tracing) really provides an understanding of illegal firearms, as well as patterns (in) the type and make, and possible smuggling and traffic routes,” White said.

There are roughly 1.1 million registered firearms in Canada, most of them handguns, White said, adding that organized crime and illegal guns are a problem in Canada.