Welcome to Net Zero, your daily industry brief on clean energy and Canadian-resource politics.

In Alberta, a group of Indigenous communities are competing with big name oil and gas companies to secure the rights to construct and operate the first large-scale, regional carbon capture and storage facility in the province. The provincial government has selected an area known as the Industrial Heartland, northeast of Edmonton, as the location for the proposed centre.

“We have to leave Mother Earth in a state where our kids and grandkids can flourish and have fresh water and breathe fresh air. So I think that’s the big sales pitch that we need to look at. And secondly, is economic reconciliation with the First Nations,” said Chief Greg Desjarlais of the Frog Lake First Nation.

The centre would collect carbon emissions from refineries, fertilizer plants, and any other facility that emits greenhouse gases. The emissions would then be stored underground.

Bids are due on Feb. 1, to build the first of what the Alberta government hopes will be many carbon capture hubs throughout the province, and the winning proposal will be selected next month.

Among the companies competing with the Indigenous bid includes Shell, Suncor, and TC Energy. CBC News has the full story.

The Biden administration announced it would invest $1.15 billion to clean up abandoned oil and gas wells across the country. The money represents a portion of the $4.7 billion designated for well clean-up that was included in the infrastructure law passed in Congress last year. Reuters has the details.

Among those nominated for this year’s Nobel Peace Prize includes British nature broadcaster and climate activist David Attenborough. Environmentalists have won the Nobel Peace Prize in the past, including former U.S. vice-president Al Gore and Kenyan activist Wangari Maathai.

Meanwhile, Exxon Mobil announced a slew of changes to its global operations, including the combination of its refining and chemicals businesses. The oil giant will also put its energy transition business on the same footing as its other operations.

“It’s an evolution,” said Exxon senior vice president Jack P. Williams. “We have been working on it now for a while.” Reuters also has that story.

The Russia-designed Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline has been put on hold, as the EU is looking into the project’s compliance with the bloc’s energy policy, according to European Commission Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis.

On Tuesday morning at 8:26 a.m., West Texas Intermediate was trading at US$87.37 and Brent Crude was going for US$88.49.

An environmental group called the Organizers of the Reform Gravel Mining Coalition is calling for a moratorium on all new gravel quarries in Ontario.

“Gravel mining is not a benign activity,” said Graham Flint, co-chair of the group. “It destroys the natural environment and damages communities. Its product is the feed source for highways and sprawl, the various things that are accelerating the climate crisis that we need to get under control.” CBC News has that story.

The Nunavut Impact Review Board (NIRB) has closed its hearing into Baffinland Iron Mines Corp.’s proposed expansion of its Mary River Mine.

After a hearing that has lasted over two years, with more than 2,000 documents were uploaded to the board’s public registry, the NIRB will provide recommendations to the federal minister of northern affairs about the economic and social impacts of development projects. The minister then uses that input in making a final decision on whether the project can go ahead or not. Nunatsiaq News has more from Nunavut.

CGX Energy, a Toronto-based oil and gas exploration company, reported the discovery of an oil and gas reservoir off the coast of Guyana. The company said that drilling on a second well could begin later this year. Reuters has the details.

Finally, teachers in Sudbury celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Mineral Resources and Mining Education Tours, a professional learning program for Canadian educators that provides experiential learning connected to science and geography curricula. The Sudbury Star has more on that.

Canadian Crude Index was trading at US$74.05 and Western Canadian Select was going for US$75.30 this morning at 8:26 a.m.
• Oil sands companies have financial muscle to go their own way on emission reductions (Globe and Mail)
• Calls on for extension of Georges Bank oil & gas moratorium: ‘Fishing industry is the major economic driver’ (Chronicle Herald)
• Making the case for an oil bull market that lasts five or six more years (Financial Post)
• What will climate change actually look like on the Prairies? (CBC News)
• Only massive innovation will save us from climate or financial disaster (Toronto Star)