Anti-mandate demonstrators gather as a truck convoy blocks the highway the busy U.S. border crossing in Coutts, Alta., on Monday. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press)



 Today’s Sprout is brought to you by Agriculture Carbon Alliance (ACA), a coalition of national farm organizations, representing >190,000 farm businesses. ACA advocates for practical options regarding offsets, rebates, exemptions and policy solutions for farmers. Read more about our members’ sustainability efforts here.

Good day and welcome to the Sprout, where we would like to wish a very Happy Lunar New Year to all who celebrate. Happy Year of the Tiger!

The month of February also brings with it several food holidays of note including Celebration of Chocolate month, Great American Pies month, National Canned Food month, National Cherry month, National Fondue month, National Potato Lovers month and National Snack Food month to name a few. The first week of February marks La Poutine Week in Canada, while today is National Baked Alaska Day. So, if you’re looking for culinary inspiration…well…you have options!

A blockade at the Coutts border crossing in southern Alberta continues as protestors demonstrate against COVID-19 restrictions across the country. As the Canadian Press reports, a convoy of commercial trucks and camper vans has been blocking the Canada – U.S. border crossing since Saturday. In a statement Monday night, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said they believed there was a path forward to ending the blockade, but protestors chose not to comply. Police say resources are now in place to make arrests and tow away vehicles.

As CBC News reports, the Canadian Meat Council tweeted more than 150 loads of Canadian Beef are stuck at the Coutts border crossing because of the blockade, with the Meat Council warning its members, which includes federally inspected meat packers and processors, they may have to slow down production if the gridlock is not eased.

Delays were also reported at the Emerson border crossing in Manitoba. Meanwhile, in Ottawa, downtown residents are facing a fifth day of disruption as protestors continue to gridlock parts of the National Capital’s downtown core. CBC News has that story.

The Ottawa Valley Farm Show has been cancelled for 2022. Real Agriculture has that story.

The Ottawa Business Journal takes a closer look at Eastern Ontario’s food processing sector.

Prince Edward Island Premier Dennis King says Canada has lost the thread in its negotiations with the United States amid an ongoing trade dispute over potato wart. “We aren’t thumping the table, so to speak, enough to get a firm and fast commitment,” King told CBC’s Island Morning host Mitch Cormier on Tuesday. As CBC News reports, King said rather than allowing the United States to frame the dispute as a matter of science, Canada should instead be addressing the problem as a trade issue.

Federal Agriculture Minister Marie-Claude Bibeau sat down with Real Agriculture’s Kelvin Heppner for a wide-ranging discussion on the issues currently facing the agriculture sector including vaccine mandates for truckers, the supply chain and the potato dispute. You can hear the full interview here.

Five federal cabinet ministers, including Bibeau, held the first National Supply Chain Summit on Monday, where they met with industry stakeholders to discuss challenges facing Canada strained supply chain. Real Agriculture has more. You can read the read out of Monday’s summit here.

The Canadian Food Inspection Agency has confirmed a Canada goose has died of H5N1 after the strain of Avian flu was detected on a hobby farm outside of Halifax. Global News has more.

Reuters is reporting Canada’s Nutrien Ltd., the world’s largest potash miner, could boost production by up to 29 per cent in the coming years, depending on sanctions imposed on rival producers in Russia and Belarus.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture will make its first forecast of farm income on Friday. As Successful Farming reports, new farm income in the United States is expected to fall this year after reaching an eight-year high.

Vox looks at the rare foods that are at risk of going extinct.
• FDA official says new rule could boost blockchain-based food tracking (Wall Street Journal)
• Syngenta offers new wheat herbicide and fungicide, plus a label expansion update (Real Agriculture)
• Robot born on a Nebraska farm offers hope for better grain bin safety (Ag Week)
• The Chinese café, a Prairie institution: ‘It’s what you call American Chinese food, eh’ (Toronto Star)

CBC News shares the story of a Scarborough business that has been giving its customers a taste of home for 17 years by making traditional Chinese snacks. Among the items on the menu: lotus blossom cookies made specifically for the Lunar New Year.