If the June 2 Ontario election were held today, Premier Doug Ford’s Progressive Conservative party would be re-elected, but not with another majority, according to a new Mainstreet Research poll.

Among decided and leaning voters, 35 per cent would vote Progressive Conservative (PC), 27 per cent would vote Liberal, 22 per cent would pick the New Democratic Party (NDP), three per cent would go Green, and 12 per cent would vote for another party.

Every minority government in Ontario in the last 50 years has won with more than 35 per cent of the vote, and no majority has won with less.

Mainstreet’s data was collected from an automated phone survey of 1,025 voting-age Ontarians on Jan. 24 and 25. Respondents were reached on landlines and cellphones. The survey is meant to represent Ontario’s overall voting population. Its results have a margin of error of plus or minus three per cent, and are accurate 19 times out of 20.

The new poll suggests Ford’s PCs have regained a foothold with voters, as they were picked by only 31 per cent of respondents to Mainstreet’s last survey taken on Jan. 15 and 16, putting them just three per cent ahead of Steven Del Duca’s Liberal party and four percentage points ahead of Andrea Horwath’s NDP.

When other firms’ surveys conducted in mid-January are taken into account, the race begins to look complicated; the PCs, Liberals, and NDP each has a slight edge over the others, depending on the poll.

Mainstreet’s latest survey was also conducted before protesters descended on Ottawa last weekend to demand that all COVID-19 mandates and restrictions be repealed, and before the escalation of a challenge to Erin O’Toole’s leadership of the federal Conservatives.

The new poll shows the PCs back where they were in early December, before another lockdown was necessitated by the Omicron variant.

What’s changed since almost two months ago is that Del Duca’s Liberals have overtaken Horwath’s NDP as the second-most popular party. In early December, the NDP had a 28 to 25 per cent edge over the Liberals. But by mid-January, the Liberals had a slight lead over the New Democrats, with 28 per cent to the latter’s 27 per cent.

Ford’s 76-member majority won the 2018 election with 40 per cent of the vote. Thirty-three per cent cast a ballot for the NDP, which won 40 seats. After governing the province for 15 years, the Liberals got a mere 19 per cent of votes, sending just seven of their MPPs to Queen’s Park. Mike Schreiner’s Green party got five per cent, and he was the only Green elected.

Less than three per cent of voters in 2018 chose other parties — significantly less than the 12 per cent who recently told Mainstreet they’re intending to vote for parties other than the PCs, Liberals, NDP, or Greens.

Three right-wing parties have popped up in Ontario recently, each hoping to draw support from Ontarians who feel they’re not represented by other parties: MPP Randy Hillier’s Ontario First Party, endorsed by People’s Party of Canada Leader Maxime Bernier; Jim and MPP Belinda Karahalios’s New Blue party; and former MP Derek Sloan’s Ontario Party.

This story was copy-edited after publication.