'If the goal is forming government, winning big in safe seats and consolidating the right doesn’t help the Conservatives; they need to expand their base.'

Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole removes his mask as he steps up to the podium at a news conference on Parliament Hill in October 2021.(Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press)

Since losing the 2021 federal election, Conservatives have been struggling to decide whether to toss out their leader, Erin O’Toole.

This week, a possible full-caucus revolt has emerged, putting O’Toole and his team in a precarious position. O’Toole did state publicly that he welcomes the caucus review, but it’s unlikely that’s actually the case.

At its first gathering on Wednesday, the Conservative caucus will get its first chance this year to give O’Toole the boot, triggering another leadership review, the third in five years.

Like the Liberals, who held leadership elections in 2006, 2009, and 2013, Conservatives might be thinking the third time will be the charm. But those lining up against O’Toole in this internal struggle are largely those who’d move the party away from progressive policies, such as the ban on conversion therapy and a carbon tax — in other words, policies supported by a vast majority of Canadians, but not a vast majority of Conservatives.

So my question is: Do Conservatives even want the chance to win another election? Because if they do, they’ll need to build support in Ontario, Quebec, and the Atlantic provinces by adopting more centrist or progressive policies, not by moving further right and winning by wider margins in ridings they already hold.

Last year, I wrote that the final results of the 2021 election showed how close O’Toole and the Conservatives came to winning the most seats: Just 32,339 votes kept O’Toole from a plurality. But the truth is that a minority Conservative government would have trouble building a governing coalition in Parliament without a substantial minority; only a majority will ensure their return.

In that regard, O’Toole came closer to winning a majority over Justin Trudeau than did Stephen Harper or Andrew Scheer.

With data compiled from the final outcome of the election, we compared the numbers from the 2015, 2019, and 2021 federal elections to find out how many more votes the Tories would have needed to win a majority over Trudeau’s Liberals. We added together the margin of loss for each seat the Conservatives were closest to winning to get to 170 seats in each of the last three elections.

Both in raw vote count and percentage, O’Toole came closer to beating Trudeau than Harper did in 2015, and closer than Scheer did in 2019. In the 2021 election, the Conservatives needed just 110,263 more votes to win a majority, and while a small fraction were in Western Canada and the Prairies, most that were needed for a majority were in Ontario, Quebec, and Atlantic Canada.

This is clearly a better performance than under Scheer’s leadership in the 2019 federal election, when the Conservatives would have needed 134,700 more votes for a majority, and far closer than Harper’s performance in 2015, when the Tories fell 256,333 votes short of a second majority mandate.

If the goal is forming government, winning big in safe seats and consolidating the right doesn’t help the Conservatives; they need to expand their base. As my colleague Joseph Angolano wrote on Monday, there’s room to increase support from undecided voters and backers of other parties who oppose continued COVID-vaccine mandates, for example.

In fact, doing so might make it harder to form a governing coalition with other parties in a minority scenario. Moreover, the next election will probably be held in a post-pandemic world, or at least once COVID is endemic and seasonal, thereby reducing the influence of the People’s party and other regional fringe parties. Only by appealing to the centre of the voting population can the Conservatives win government.

Should they toss out O’Toole, as they did Scheer when he failed to defeat Trudeau’s Liberals in 2019? That’s a question for them to decide. But if the question is whether they hope to win again, unifying only the right won’t create a path to victory.

Whether the Conservative caucus decides to keep O’Toole or turf him out depends on many factors, some personal and some ideological. But there’s an argument to be made that sacrificing unnecessary votes in some ridings to gain votes in others was a worthy trade.

No doubt this is an argument O’Toole and his supporters hope will win the day.

Quito Maggi is president and CEO of Mainstreet Research.

The views, opinions and positions expressed by all iPolitics columnists and contributors are the author’s alone. They do not inherently or expressly reflect the views, opinions and/or positions of iPolitics.