'Although the first round of votes haven't even been cast, the process is already under a cloud of suspicion.'

The federal Liberals became colloquially known as Canada’s “natural governing party” after having ruled the country for most of the 20th century.

The B.C. Liberals, who have a similar name but haven’t been affiliated with the federal party in decades, would no doubt like to become known as British Columbia’s natural governing party of the 21st century, after running the province for 16 of the past 22 years.

The problem is that they were handed a crushing defeat in the 2020 election, dropping from 43 seats to just 28 out of an available 87, and are now desperately trying to rebrand and rebuild in the hope of regaining power in 2024.

Interim leader Shirley Bond has held the fort in Victoria since former leader Andrew Wilkinson stepped down more than a year ago, and roughly 43,000 eligible party members – for context, roughly the population of West Vancouver – will have the chance to choose a new boss this Saturday (Feb.5) after the longest leadership race in the party’s history.

Barring any last-minute bombshells dropping or skeletons emerging from closets, the smart money is on Kevin Falcon or Ellis Ross seizing the reins.

Although the first round of votes haven’t even been cast, the process is already under a cloud of suspicion. The campaigns of five of the seven candidates wrote a letter last month suggesting that up to half of new party memberships could be bogus. This, after a variety of irregularities were found, including some newly minted Liberal party members sharing the same address and some membership fees processed via pre-paid credit cards.

“We are collectively concerned about the potential for voter fraud, the current audit process, and the risk of catastrophic reputational damage to the party, party staff, (the leadership committee), the executive, and all of us, if this race is perceived as anything less than free and fair,” stated the letter sent to the Liberal Election Organizing Committee, which was signed by the campaign managers for Ross and fellow hopefuls Gavin Dew, Michael Lee, Renee Merrifield, and Stan Sipos.

Party brass ultimately shrugged off the suggestion that anything was amiss, despite the fact that Falcon’s team signed up the vast majority of new members. His campaign has since argued that it’s simply a reflection of the enthusiasm British Columbians have for the former deputy premier and finance minister returning to the political sphere after a decade spent in the private sector, rather than anything nefarious.

Certainly, he brings substantial name recognition to the table — not to mention “Premier Falcon” is a popular brand of hockey skate, which would surely resonate with some voters — but the presumed front-runner mis-spoke when he claimed in the final leadership debate last month that he was the only candidate with senior ministerial experience.

Ross, the current two-time MLA for Skeena and a former chief councillor of the Haisla Nation, was named both minister of natural-gas development and minister responsible for housing by premier Christy Clark in 2017. Granted, the gig lasted less than three weeks, until the NDP and Greens teamed up to defeat the Liberal government on a confidence vote, but he has the advantage of at least being a sitting member of the legislature, and, unlike Falcon, he wouldn’t also need to win a byelection somewhere in order to do the job of party leader.

But party-membership races often go in surprising directions with ranked ballots, whereby the eventual winner isn’t necessarily the one with the most first-choice votes. Rather, he or she could be the one with the broadest base of support.

Charismatic former Surrey mayor Dianne Watts, for example, was expected to take control of the B.C. Liberals in the previous leadership contest, only to lose to the wooden Wilkinson in the final round. The odds weren’t on Erin O’Toole beating Peter McKay to become leader of the federal Conservatives in their last leadership battle, either, nor, frankly, on Andrew Scheer snatching a win from Maxime Bernier in the previous one. It’s worth remembering that Doug Ford wasn’t the first pick of a majority of Ontario Progressive Conservatives for leader, either, and yet here we are.

Vancouver-Langara MLA Michael Lee, who came in third overall in the party’s previous leadership race, has been a vocal advocate for the Liberals’ need to reinvent themselves as a more diverse and inclusive big-tent party, if they hope to put their past scandals and PR problems behind, while Kelowna-Mission MLA and current health critic Renee Merrifield — the only female candidate — also has a substantial public profile, albeit one that involves a habit of playing footsie with the far right, including questioning the province’s public-health orders during the pandemic, and throwing her support to the “Freedom Convoy” barbarians currently laying siege to the nation’s capital.

Dew, a 37-year-old entrepreneur who promises to run in 2024, even if not elected leader, has also injected some much-needed youthful energy into the race, while party insider and former B.C. Chamber of Commerce CEO Val Litwin could prove to be a dark-horse candidate.

Anything seems possible when it’s the party faithful picking the winners rather than the wider general electorate, but it will be another couple of years before we see if that choice resonates with the roughly 3.1 million people eligible to vote in the next provincial election.

The views, opinions and positions expressed by all iPolitics columnists and contributors are the author’s alone. They do not inherently or expressly reflect the views, opinions and/or positions of iPolitics.