UCLA will resume in-person classes Wednesday after a former lecturer who sent campus members a video referencing a mass shooting and an 800-page manifesto with specific threats was taken into custody Tuesday by police in Boulder, Colo.

Matthew Harris, a former postdoctoral fellow who was let go by UCLA last year following widespread complaints about his behavior, was taken into custody peacefully at 11:07 a.m. after a three-hour-long barricade at his apartment, Boulder police said. Officials said his manifesto contained references to Boulder “in a university and schoolyard setting.”

“The level of violence we saw in the manifesto was obviously alarming,” said Boulder Police Chief Maris Herold. “It was very violent and it was very disturbing.”

Boulder police made contact with Harris in October but did not say more about the incident. In November, Harris attempted to buy a firearm in Jefferson County and was denied the purchase. Officials said Harris was in a national database that included a provision that he was not allowed to purchase or possess a firearm. No criminal charges were filed.

Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore said Tuesday that he believes the UCLA campus is safe.

UCLA officials told students they were “greatly relieved” that Harris is in custody and offered campus counseling for anyone needing it.

“The threats made yesterday were frightening for many of us and caused our community to feel vulnerable at an already challenging time,” said Suzanne L. Seplow, assistant vice chancellor for student development and health, and Michael Deluca, assistant vice chancellor for campus life.

Moore said the LAPD became aware Monday night of “online media posts involving YouTube videos and a manifesto” from a former UCLA lecturer, indicating that he was “potentially planning for a mass violence or shooting event at UCLA.”

The chief said that the department’s mental evaluation unit had previous contact with the individual in the spring of 2021 and that the department took the online threats seriously.

Several emails from department leaders that were obtained by The Times informed students and faculty that Matthew Harris made threats toward the philosophy department and people in it. In some of the emails, sent over the course of Monday evening, department heads recommend moving to virtual learning, and multiple instructors did so, alerting students that in-person classes would not be held.

A campus alert sent shortly after midnight stated that authorities didn’t have “specific information” that Harris was in California. On Tuesday morning, UCLA notified the Bruin community that the person who made the threats is “under observation” and not in California.

“Nonetheless, out of an abundance of caution, all classes will be held remotely tomorrow, Feb 1,” Monday night’s alert read. “We will keep you updated on developments.”

Sherrilyn Roush, UCLA’s philosophy department chair, had told faculty members to avoid holding in-person classes “until Harris’ location is determined,” the Daily Bruin reported.

According to one email sent by a philosophy instructor to students, Harris’ messages included “a video entitled ‘UCLA Philosophy Mass Shooting’ and an 800-page manifesto with specific threats towards some members of our department.”

“In light of this, we will continue to have discussion through Zoom until the authorities say that it is safe,” the email said. “I will keep you updated on this situation. But I would avoid being anywhere near Dodd Hall or the philosophy department until further notice.”

Reports of Harris’ video and manifesto quickly circulated on social media platforms such as Twitter and Reddit, where students and others expressed fear for their safety and criticized officials for not informing the campus as a whole.

In many posts, students said they were terrified and frustrated by what they described as a lack of clear communication by officials.

On Sunday, Harris sent an email just before 1 a.m. to his former students, replete with racist slurs against Jewish and East Asian people. Administrative Vice Chancellor Michael Beck confirmed in an Instagram video Monday night that UCLA staff members were aware that Harris had messaged students.

Amid the online student posts and philosophy department notices, Steve Ritea, UCLA’s chief media and executive communications officer, said Monday night that university police are aware of “a concerning email and posting sent to some members of the UCLA community today and actively engaged with out-of-state law enforcement and federal agencies.”

Ritea did not provide further information Monday night.

According to an email sent to members of the psychology department and obtained by The Times, UCLA police told a member of the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology that “at this time we’re not concerned about anything happening.”

Harris’ YouTube channel contained more than 300 videos, the majority of which were uploaded Monday. By midnight, the channel displayed a message saying that the account had been terminated.

A video titled “UCLA PHILOSOPHY (MASS SHOOTING)” was posted Sunday and contained disturbing imagery, including footage of the 2017 mass shooting at a Las Vegas music festival and clips from the 2003 movie “Zero Day,” which is loosely based on the Columbine High School mass shooting.

In several videos, Harris makes racist comments. He also cryptically names specific locations on the UCLA campus as he says they’re added to his “list.”

He talks off-camera while he plays a video game in which he runs around a virtual city, firing a gun at cars and people.

In one video, he repeats, “Do you make explosives?”

“Someday the s— might actually hit the fan,” Harris said.

The Times obtained a partial copy of Harris’ email to the UCLA philosophy department.

He makes references to race and uses several profanities. He included links to his manifesto and videos, including the video that appeared to threaten a mass shooting.

“da war is comin,” he wrote. “forward dis [expletive] to our tha goldhead caucasoid princess.”

In reviews left on bruinwalk.com, a site where students can post anonymous reviews of professors and other staff members, two students described Harris’ disturbing and erratic behavior as a lecturer.

Harris “is extremely unprofessional and has sent his personal p*rnographic content to a student,” according to one review.

In a separate post, another student described Harris’ class as their least favorite at UCLA “ever” and said many students had complained to the department about his behavior.

A philosophy department newsletter from spring 2019 stated Harris would join the university as a postdoctoral fellow in philosophy after completing his dissertation at Duke University.

“He works on philosophy of race, personal identity, and related issues in philosophy of mind,” the newsletter stated.

Harris was placed on leave last year while campus officials investigated reports that he sent a video with pornographic content to a student, according to the Daily Bruin. His term as a postdoctoral fellow was set to end in June.

Times staff writers Kevin Rector and Richard Winton contributed to this report.