NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Vernon Green II, the man accused of killing a Newport News police officer during a traffic stop in January 2020 is suing the Newport News Police Department and Chief Steve Drew.

In a 10-page handwritten civil lawsuit filed from inside the Hampton Roads Regional Jail, Green is asking for $1.1 million in damages against Drew, as he believes excessive force was used against him during the traffic stop.

The traffic stop involving Green happened around 6:45 p.m. on January 23, 2020, after a report of drug activity in the area near Monitor-Merrimac Overlook Park. 24-year-old Officer Katie Thyne and another officer responded.

The other officer handcuffed Green’s female passenger after asking her to step out of the car. Both officers then asked Green to step out of the vehicle because he was being detained for a “narcotics investigation,” according to a handwritten complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on Jan. 20.

Green claims in the suit that he asked for an explanation for why he needed to exit the vehicle when ordered by Thyne, refused to exit. He admitted he tried to drive away and claimed Officer Thyne jumped inside the vehicle and began choking him.

The vehicle drove away from the scene for about a block before striking a tree on the driver’s side. Green then fled on foot, leaving the injured officer behind.

Thyne was pinned between the door and the tree. Officers reported she was transported to Norfolk Sentara General Hospital, where she died of her injuries.

Following his arrest, Green was also taken to a hospital with injuries to the left side of his body, including his ribs, knees, legs, and face.

Green was sentenced back in April on federal drug and gun charges related to the deadly traffic stop. He was sentenced to 10 years for illegal gun possession and two years for the felony drug possession charge.

Green is scheduled for a three-day jury trial in Newport News Circuit Court starting Nov. 15 on charges of felony homicide and failure to render aid after a hit-and-run.

“Officer Thyne, Katie, was a true hero. She will always be remembered for that.”

Thyne graduated from the police academy just about one year before her death. Before her police service, she served her county in the Navy Reserves.

In the lawsuit, Green alleges Officer Thyne never put her emergency lights on and did not identify herself when approaching Green during a traffic stop on January 23, 2020.

The lawsuit further alleges that Chief Drew is responsible for the lack of proper training of Thyne and her failure to follow police policy on use of force in nonviolent arrest/custody procedure, and failure of the officers’ need to protect and serve in violation of the Green’s constitutional rights.

Officer Thyne’s brother, Tim Thyne, reacted to the lawsuit saying that Vernon made his own decisions that led to the death of the young officer:

“He made the decision to do what he did and flee the scene, and the result of his action killed my sister. He made that decision, and it’s a very clear outcome of the decision he made. He should be held accountable for that.”

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

Feds could have locked up Officer Thyne’s murderer months before she was killed. They refused to.

Law Enforcement Today told you about a young officer in Newport News, Virginia who was killed in the line of duty. Officer Katherine Thyne, “Katie,” was dragged by a vehicle and pinned in between the car and a tree during an investigation.

This week, we have learned that the man who murdered the US Navy veteran, Katie, 38-year old Vernon Evander Green II, shouldn’t have been out of prison to commit the crime in the first place.

In May of 2016, Vernon Green was involved in an armed robbery of Select Bank & Trust in Raleigh, North Carolina which should have seen him land behind bars for over 2 decades.

Because the US Attorney’s office in Elizabeth City, NC declined to prosecute the federal crime, the case was handled by the state.

“Their decision to decline prosecution in this case was very disappointing,” said Andrew Womble, the district attorney who oversees state criminal prosecutions in several North Carolina counties.

When suspects are tried federally, there is a strong inclination to keep them in prison while they await their trials.

Not so when the suspect is tried by the state, which gives them the ability to bail out. Which is exactly why Green had his freedom and the opportunity to murder young Officer Thyne.

The case was turned down by the US Attorney’s office last September, although the reasons are unknown. Green was already on probation at the time of the robbery, due to a 2003 cocaine dealing and gun case out of Newport News.

The Daily Press enquired as to why prosecution was declined. In an email response, Don Connelly, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Raleigh said:

“We follow the principles of federal prosecution in determining whether to accept or decline every matter presented to our office for prosecution and did so in this matter.”

I’m sure Katie’s two-year old daughter, who will grow up without her mother, will find it a comfort to know that they followed “principles” and allowed an armed and dangerous criminal out of prison.

The sweet little girl’s guardians will rock her to sleep at night singing how the man that ripped her mother away from her had the ability to roam free after posting bail, because US attorneys decided the federal crime wasn’t worth prosecuting.

Green robbed a bank. That’s a federal crime. He used a firearm in said robbery. He got away with over $10,000. He was already on probation for a drug dealing and gun charge.

How many more crimes did they want him to be caught committing before they were going to act?

It sure would be nice if our attorneys, federal and local, would grow some balls and keep criminals where they belong- in jail.

We have jails for a reason, but lately, thanks to social justice warriors and liberal lawmakers and prosecutors, we are seeing these violent members of society let back out on the streets in alarmingly high numbers, continuing to terrorize our communities rather than paying their debt to society and being prevented from committing future crimes.

Now, of course, he will hopefully be facing life in prison, with the charge of felony homicide, drug possession and attempting to evade and elude law enforcement.

Prosecutors owe that to Katie’s little girl and the rest of her family.

Green is currently being held without bond, thank the Lord, at the Hampton Roads Regional Jail.

At 10am, May 18, 2016, Green walked into the Select Bank & Trust holding a firearm and a black duffle bag. He forced employees to give him $10,361 in cash before running out to his black Mercedes.

Authorities were able to trace the vehicle back to Green, who was indicted in March of 2018 on the charges of robbery with a dangerous weapon and possession of a firearm as a convicted felon. He was extradited from Virginia to North Carolina.

Even so, he was allowed to post a $250,000 bond and let out of prison, provided he stay in the state of North Carolina.

Incredibly unsurprisingly, Green gave the judge’s orders the middle finger and went wherever the hell he felt like going, which is why he was able to be in Newport News, Virginia on January 23, 2019, when he murdered Officer Katie Thyne.

Of course, the man that posted bail for Green was “totally surprised” by Green’s actions. Let me guess: He was just starting to turn his life around?

The Hampton bail bondsman is Ron Owens paid Green’s bail because he’s known his parents for a long time and attended church with them.

“He doesn’t fit the type of thug guy you’d expect to see with these kinds of charges against him.

“I can’t understand what was going through his mind.”

Owens said that Green made a “bad decision” in fleeing that night when Officer Thyne stopped him. She and her partner were responding to a call of drug activity in the area, and located Green in a vehicle with a woman, where the two were smoking marijuana.

Weed. Katie died because Vernon Green didn’t want to be caught with weed. Court records show that Green could have had his bond revoked for any of his previous charges, sending him back to jail.

Oh, ok. That makes it all worth it.

Green “swears” he wasn’t involved in the 2016 robbery. He called to report his car stolen, which was found 8 days after the robbery in an auto shop.

Owens said of Green’s parents, “They’re all in pieces over this. They know his character.”

So do the bank employees from Select Bank & Trust.

So do the drug users that bought their supply from Green.

So does Officer Thyne’s partner, who had to watch her die.

So does the entire law enforcement community who suffered the loss of a young and heroic sister.

So does Katie’s 2-year old motherless daughter.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.