OAKLAND — Mark Anthony Estrada, the Oakland man who has been in jail for years awaiting charges of murdering Hayward police Sgt. Scott Lunger in a 2015 traffic stop, has accepted a life sentence in a plea deal with prosecutors just one week before trial.

Estrada, 27, accepted a first degree murder conviction, along with a gang enhancement, for fatally shooting Lunger in the early morning hours of July 22, 2015. Lunger, a Brentwood resident and high school softball coach, was mourned by thousands in a funeral possession later that month.

Estrada shot Lunger in the head and thigh as Lunger approached the Chevrolet Silverado he had stopped near Myrtle and Lion streets for swerving on the road at 3:15 a.m. July 22, 2015. Later that morning, Estrada showed up at a friends house in East Oakland frantic, bleeding from a wound to his back, and said he’d been shot by a policeman, according to testimony at his preliminary hearing. He reeked out alcohol and refused to go to the hospital, the friend testified.

Estrada has been awaiting trial for nearly six years. He was set to go before a jury in 2020, but the COVID-19 pandemic forced a mistrial. For the past several weeks, attorneys have been going through pretrial motions and jury selection in anticipation of making opening statements in early February.

In a written statement, Alameda County District Attorney Nancy O’Malley said she was pleased with the result. Estrada’s attorney didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

“Sergeant Lunger’s tragic death shook the Hayward Police Department and community. Police officers put themselves in harm’s way every day while working to keep our communities safe,” O’Malley said. “It is imperative that we diligently pursue convictions and appropriate sentences for those who injure or kill police officers in the line of duty.”

Estrada was facing charges of murder with special circumstances of lying in wait, which would have made him eligible for life in prison without the possibility of parole. It was initially charged as a potential death penalty case.

Estrada will be formally sentenced March 18, prosecutors said.