Even though Mekhi Becton will be healthy, the job of protecting Zach Wilson’s blindside is not automatically his.

The Jets will not just hand the starting left tackle job back to Becton in 2022 after the No. 11 overall pick in 2020 missed most of this season with a knee injury.

George Fant replaced Becton and played well beyond expectations.

Fant was phenomenal in pass protection as he was fourth among tackles in fewest pressures allowed with 18, according to Pro Football Focus. And he allowed only one sack on the season.

There is also some friction between Becton and the coaching staff as they believe he possesses the ability to be elite, but mentally isn’t mature enough.

Robert Saleh admitted there will be a competition between Becton and Fant when talking to reporters at the Senior Bowl Tuesday.

“It’d be a disservice to George and the work that he’s put in and the things that he was able to do this year to just tell George that he can’t compete for that job,” Saleh said. “So, like I said, a great problem. We’re kind of spoiled in that regard that we got two really good tackles and it’s going to be great to watch the guys compete.”

So going into Becton’s third year, he will have to earn his starting spot back. After a standout rookie season, he suffered a rough sophomore year. Even before the season ending injury, it was reported his weight was an issue with the Jets during the offseason. Then he suffered plantar fasciitis during spring workouts, which knocked him out of OTAs and mandatory minicamp.

Then when the training camp started, Becton wasn’t practicing well, struggling in pass protection before he suffered a concussion during joint practices against the Eagles. Once he returned against the Panthers he played well before a defender barreled into his knee in the third quarter.

“Mekhi — it happens, right? You have a really nice first year. Second year — he’s not the first nor the last, that’s gonna have a second year that doesn’t go the way you want to.For one reason or another second year doesn’t go as planned,” Saleh said. “But the third year for all these guys very, very big deal and it’s one of those deals. George Fant stepped into that left tackle spot and did a wonderful job and he’s earned the right to be part of that discussion at left tackle.”

Saleh said that Becton could earn his old starting job back this summer.

“I’ve told George he’s got a chance to maintain that position and it’s the same thing for Mekhi,” he said Tuesday. “He’s got to come in and he’s got to reassert himself into the starting lineup and it’s a really good problem to have, with what George has been able to do and what we know we can get out of Mekhi here as he attacks this offseason.

“But it is a big offseason for him and the sense that he’s got to be able to put together OTAs and training camp and give himself a chance … So we’re excited about Mekhi and the direction he’s going.”

Also, Saleh didn’t dismiss the possibility of Becton playing right tackle.

“I think Mekhi has the skill set to do whatever he wants — just has to put his mind to it.”

Competing just to be a starter in year three isn’t an ideal situation, as Becton has immense talent. The hope was that Becton would be ascending by now. But the situation is all in Becton’s hands; he just has to unlock that ability.