A rather intriguing rumor persists amid reports that Prince Andrew could be asked to vacate his 31-room mansion near Windsor Castle as he faces the global spectacle and hefty legal bills of a U.S. trial on sex abuse allegations.

The rumor comes from a Daily Mail report over the summer, which says that Prince William, Kate Middleton and their three children could take over “Uncle Andrew’s” Royal Lodge, the Georgian mansion that’s about three miles from Windsor Castle and was the longtime home of the Queen Mother.

It’s still just a rumor, given more recent reports in the Daily Mail and Architectural Digest that William and Kate are more interested in another coveted royal property near Windsor Castle, as they consider relocating their family from London to the suburbs west of the city. The future king and his wife may be thinking that Fort Belvedere, a Gothic Revival-style castle, could be their future main residence.

Some of Andrew’s many critics clearly like the idea of William forcing Andrew out of Royal Lodge and thereby flexing his power in the royal family to further his troublesome uncle’s humiliation.

“The ongoing personal scandal involving Prince Andrew and Jeffrey Epstein is a source of much heartache for Charles and William who are trying to protect the future of the monarchy,” a source told The Daily Mail in August. “There is now an active discussion at the most senior levels of the Royal Family about how Andrew can remain at the Royal Lodge, given the circumstances.”

William and Prince Charles, Andrew’s older brother, were reportedly instrumental in urging the queen last month to strip Andrew of his military titles and royal patronages, following a U.S. judge’s ruling that the civil sex abuse case against Andrew will go forward.

William was reportedly a key figure in the queen’s decision to reduce Andrew to the status of “private citizen” as he battles allegations that he had sex with Virginia Roberts Giuffre, who says she was one of Jeffrey Epstein’s underaged sex trafficking victims.

Giuffre alleges that the late multimillionaire pedophile forced her to have sex with Andrew three times in 2001, the first time in London when she was 17.

William helped his grandmother realize that Andrew’s position was “grave,” The Sun said.

The possibility of Andrew losing Royal Lodge is still very much in play and could be another way that his status in the royal family will be downgraded, according to The Sun. Andrew may also have to give up his 24-hour security, but being asked to leave Royal Lodge would be the bitterest pill of all to swallow.

Andrew, 61, has enjoyed the luxuries of Royal Lodge since 2003. Set on 98 acres, it’s massive enough that he and his ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, can occupy separate wings.

It’s valued at around $40 million, but, typically, Andrew signed an extremely generous lease that sees him only paying the equivalent of about $1,300 a month, according to The Sun. To his credit, he likely added to its value by spending $10 million to upgrade the property, including the installation an indoor swimming pool.

Fortunately for the royal family, Andrew doesn’t own the estate, so it can’t be seized as one of his assets if he loses his case against Giuffre, The Sun said.

It’s expected that the damages could be in the millions if Giuffre wins her case, or if Andrew settles, The Sun said.

That’s one reason Andrew might have sold his $22 million ski lodge in the Swiss alps — so that it wouldn’t be seized if he loses the case, The Sun said, but it’s also possible that Andrew sold the vacation getaway to raise money to pay his lawyers.

The duke’s net worth could be as high as $43 million, according to Fox Business News, but he’s also known for enjoying a lavish lifestyle that he probably can’t afford with the $323,000 tax-free pay he receives annually from the queen’s private estate. Andrew additionally receives about $26,000 a year in pension from the Royal Navy.

Andrew is renowned for his expensive tastes, including a fleet of luxury cars that includes a $300,000 Bentley, and a collection of high-end watches, The Sun said. Andrew’s cars and watches definitely could be seized as assets if he loses the civil trial.

Meanwhile, if Andrew must vacate Royal Lodge, he could move into Frogmore Cottage, which also is near Windsor Castle and was the short-time residence of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle before they moved to the United States. Their lease is up in April.