Boris Johnson has been accused of attending more ‘partygate’ events being investigated by the Metropolitan Police.

The prime minister joined then-fiancée Carrie in their Number 10 flat to celebrate Dominic Cummings’ departure on November 13 2020, The Telegraph claims.

ABBA songs including The Winner Takes It All were heard blaring from the gathering by aides, it was previously reported.

Former top aide Mr Cummings claimed tonight there were photos that would ‘incriminate’ the Tory leader in a question and answer session on his paid-for blog. The PM repeatedly refused to say if he was there on Monday.

Fresh accounts of other gatherings have also emerged after the Sue Gray report revealed three events not previously in the public eye.

These include two the PM is said to have attended, and another ‘attended by up to 20 people, including Martin Reynolds’ – Mr Johnson’s principal private secretary who was previously accused of organising a BYOB party for 100 staff.

The PM went to a prosecco-fuelled leaving do at Downing Street as the country was in a strict third lockdown, it’s claimed.

The Tory leader gave a speech at an event held in Downing Street on January 14, 2021 to mark ‘the departure of two No 10 private secretaries’, the Guardian reports.

Two weeks before, Mr Johnson had told England: ‘You may only leave home for limited reasons permitted in law, such as to shop for essentials, to work if you absolutely cannot work from home, to exercise, to seek medical assistance such as getting a Covid test, or to escape domestic abuse.’

The top politician is believed have stayed by five minutes after addressing his audience.

It was apparently partly held for a senior policy adviser who is now a top civil servant working in the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, while the identity of the second official remains unknown.

Another leaving do for defence and national security advisor Captain Steve Higham was attended by Mr Johnson on December 17, 2020, it’s claimed.

Tier three rules at the time dictated that people could not mix indoors with anyone outside their household.

It’s reported the PM was only present ‘for a few minutes’ to honour his ‘close friend’ Capt Higham.

The third previously undocumented event saw ‘up to 20 people attend another boozing leaving do in the Cabinet Office’ on June 18, 2020 – when only six people could meet outside.

It was prompted by ‘the departure of a No 10 private secretary’, named by the Telegraph as Hannah Young, who went to take up the role of deputy consul general in New York.

One government source claimed the event was ‘raucous’, but another said this was not true.

Mr Reynolds, who is said to have attended, had contacted senior advisers in No 10 to ask their advice on holding the gathering, it’s claimed.

Downing Street refused to comment when approached by Metro.co.uk.

The Cabinet Office, the Metropolitan Police and the three government bodies where the three staff members mentioned work all declined to give statements when approached by The Telegraph.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.