A series of bomb threats have disrupted a number of historically Black colleges and universities across the US on Tuesday, the first day of Black History Month.

At least 13 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) reported bomb threats Tuesday, and at least one, Howard University, also received a bomb threat on Monday.

While authorities have not found any credible threats to the campuses, many students have been left on edge as the US enters Black History Month, dedicated to celebrating the triumphs and struggles of African Americans through the nation’s history.

President Joe Biden has been kept up to date on the series of threats seen this week, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said during a briefing.

‘We condemn these disturbing threats and our thoughts are with the students, faculty and staff of these stories institutions,’ Psaki said.

The White House is in contact with local and federal law enforcement agencies, but does not have a current assessment of the threats as Homeland Security continues its investigation into the matter.

The FBI said in a statement that it was working with law enforcement partners to address any potential threats, none of which thus fare have been described as credible. School officials still are taking precautions to protect faculty and staff, as many of the schools receive threats frequently.

Schools that have received threats span several states, including: Maryland, Delaware, Mississippi, Kentucky, Georgia, Louisiana, Florida as well as Washington DC. A majority of the threats were made during early morning hours.

Howard University in Washington DC, the alma mater of Vice President Kamala Harris, has faced two days of bomb threats this week.

‘The Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) and the Howard University Department of Police have issued an “ALL CLEAR” in the investigation of a bomb threat made this morning at approximately 2.55am,’ the University tweeted Tuesday morning, lifting a shelter in place order.

Classes at Mississippi Valley State University were held remotely on Tuesday after officials received report of a bomb threat at the school’s guardhouse early in the morning.

Threats at Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland were found to be unsubstantiated, the school shared in a Tweet Tuesday afternoon.

The University System of Maryland’s Chancellor Jay Perman called it a ‘devastating and despicable’ beginning of Black History Month. In Maryland, Bowie State University and Coppin State University also received threats.

‘If the intent of these threats was to restrict access to our historically Black institutions — to restrict access to higher education itself — it will fail. If it was meant to sow division, it will fail. If it was meant to terrorize students and communities of color, it will fail,’Perman said.

‘Because we will work even harder to make sure our HBCUs, and everyone they serve, feel the full weight of our protection and support.’

At Bethune-Cookman University in Florida, a man who claimed to be in a neo-Nazi organization made a bomb threat to the school, Daytona Beach Chief of Police Jakari Young said during a news conference.

While police did not find any bombs on campus, Young said that the FBI was investigating with local officials to better connect the dots with other threats at other HBCUs.

According to school officials and social media posts, bomb threats were made at the following HBCUs: Howard, the University of the District of Columbia (Both in DC), Morgan State University, Coppin State University and Bowie State University (Maryland), Fort Valley State University, Spelman College (Georgia), Kentucky State University (Kentucky), Xavier University of Louisiana, Edward Waters University, Bethune-Cookman University (Florida), Alcorn State University, Mississippi Valley State University, Mississippi Rust College, Jackson State University and Tougaloo College (Mississippi).

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.