Whoopi Goldberg has apologised for her comments about the Holocaust, after she came under fire for claiming the atrocity ‘wasn’t about race’.

The actress first apologised for her comments on Twitter after she faced huge backlash.

Goldberg then referenced what she said on Tuesday’s episode of The View, beginning the show by saying (according to BBC News): ‘I said something that I feel a responsibility for not leaving unexamined because my words upset so many people, which was never my intention.

‘And I understand why now, and for that I am deeply, deeply grateful because the information I got was really helpful and it helped me understand some different things.

‘While discussing how a Tennessee school board unanimously voted to remove a graphic novel about the Holocaust, I said that the Holocaust wasn’t about race and it was instead about man’s inhumanity to man.

‘But it was indeed about race because Hitler and the Nazis considered Jews to be an inferior race.

‘Now, words matter and mine are no exception. I regret my comments, as I said, and I stand corrected. I also stand with the Jewish people as they know and y’all know because I’ve always done that.’

The panellists had been discussing the news that a Tennessee school board chose to pull Maus, a Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel about the Holocaust, from its lesson plans.

Maus depicts Jews as mice and Nazis as cats and has won numerous literary awards. The school board said they opted to pull the book from shelves as it features profanity, nudity and depiction of suicide that they deemed to be inappropriate for 13-year-olds.

During the debate, Goldberg argued that the ‘Holocaust isn’t about race’, which many viewers called her out on.

The US Holocaust Museum tweeted: ‘Racism was central to Nazi ideology. Jews were not defined by religion, but by race. Nazi racist beliefs fueled genocide and mass murder.’

Goldberg previously said in a statement: ‘I should have said it is about both. As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, “The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race”. I stand corrected.

‘The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused.’

She concluded: ‘Written with my sincerest apologies, Whoopi Goldberg.’

However, plenty of people have been left fuming, with Piers Morgan saying she should ‘lose her job.’

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : David Baddiel ‘accepts’ Whoopi Goldberg apology as he clearly explains why the Holocaust is absolutely ‘about race’

MORE : Piers Morgan suggests Whoopi Goldberg ‘lose her job’ like Sharon Osbourne after Holocaust comments