Prince Harry and Meghan's new podcast charted below a programme that aims to send people to sleep.

The royal couple debuted their £30million series on Tuesday evening but Archewell Audio got off to a slower than start than perhaps anticipated.

In the UK the show charted at just 17 on Spotify's listings, below Deep Sleep Sound - which treats listeners to relaxing whale song.

It is designed to help parents and their babies nod off.

While hitting the high teens may be a good result for any old new podcast offering, Meghan, 39, and Harry, 36, are keen to make Archewell Audio a success.

As well as top of the range sound design, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have called on their ranks of celebrity friends to take part.

In the first episode stars, including Elton John, James Corden and George the Poet, talk about their experiences during lockdown.

As Wednesday dawned the podcast was gaining some traction, making it up to ninth place in the UK charts.

In the US it rose from 68 to 26.

For royal enthusiasts, a key moment in the first episode was the audio introduction of Meghan and Harry's son Archie.

The proud parents brought the one-year-old to the microphone, and Harry said: "You can speak into it".

What do you think of Meghan and Harry's podcast deal? Have your say in the comments section below.

Meghan then asks: "Archie is it fun?" and he repeats the word "fun".

The tot then copies his dad to say "Happy New Year", followed by a small giggle.

The young tot, who has spent much of his short life in the US, has an American accent.

The podcast series and the amount of money involved in its production has caused some eyebrows to be raised.

Royal sources have said Buckingham Palace was aware Harry and Meghan had set up their own production company to produce podcasts, but had “no knowledge” of the sums involved.

One well placed insider said: "The initial multi year deal is worth in excess of £30 million with a view to extending the deal within six months.

"Meghan was the driving force behind the deal. She was incredible in the meetings with executives and had a clear vision of what they as a couple have to offer.

"There is a massive buzz about the content and the reach not only for Spotify but for Harry and Meghan, they have the midas touch right now.

“Spotify’s whole business plan is to acquire the world’s most talked about celebrities in one place and Harry and Meghan fit the bill entirely.