Warning: spoilers for episode one of Drag Race UK vs The World ahead.

It’s finally here! Drag Race UK Vs The World has officially hit our screens, with all its charisma, uniqueness, nerve and talent from across the globe as international queens compete for the top spot.

Fan-favourites return including Baga Chipz, Jujubee, Mo Heart and Pangina, while judges RuPaul, Michelle Visage, Graham Norton and Alan Carr assess their every move with extreme attentiveness.

Also joining the line-up as a guest judge for the first episode was Mel C, who’s already caused a stir. Speaking on the show, she appeared to throw some shade at fellow Spice Girl Posh.

When introducing himself, UK queen Baga explained how she’s dressed as an ‘Academy Award.’

She added: ‘I’m not just winning an award, I AM the award.’

Judging Baga’s look, Mel pointed out: ‘Baga I think you completely embody the humour of British drag and I love that.

‘You are giving me lots of Spice Girl inspiration tonight.

‘You lip synced badly, but when you were performing, I was like, there’s a resemblance. Posh Spice! But you know what, your vocals are “much betta.”‘

In response, Ru said: ‘I had so much fun with that song, it was so infectious immediately.’

Michelle then commented: ‘Tonight, I’m so confused. I don’t know if you’re Joan of Arc, I don’t know if you’re King Arthur.’

Bags then said she was trying to be an Oscar – but instead ended up looking like a silver knight with a shining gold face.

On the first episode, Pangina was crowned the winner, with Lemon being told to sashay away.

Queens from around the world are competing for the chance to record a duet with Ru, with a portion of the proceeds going to Comic Relief and Children In Need.

Drag Race UK Versus The World premieres tonight at 9pm on BBC Three and will be available to watch on BBC iPlayer.

MORE : ‘A right balls-up!’ – Manchester United blamed as loan move for D’Mani Mellor to Crawley Town collapses

MORE : Pam & Tommy review: Pamela Anderson’s trauma has been overlooked for too long as unforgettable Lily James gives career-defining performance