Warning: Spoilers for episode 1 of Drag Race UK Vs The World.

RuPaul’s Drag Race UK vs The World has seen its first queen sashay away after an iconic launch episode.

Lemon, who rose to fame on Canada’s Drag Race, left the building after the top two queens were invited to perform in a Lip Sync for the World, with the winner choosing which queen got ditched.

After Pangina Heals beat Jimbo in the lip sync, she chose to get rid of the Canadian queen.

Spice Girl Melanie C joined RuPaul, Michelle Visage and Graham Norton on the judging panel, welcoming back queens from across international seasons.

Melanie C said of Lemon’s performance: ‘Well, Lemon I loved the song but I think one of the things it lacked was some face. You looked a little nonchalant.’

Following the Judges’ comments, RuPaul placed Lemon and Janey Jacké in the bottom two.

After a lip sync battle to Say You’ll Be There by The Spice Girls, RuPaul declared Pangina the winner, and asked her to reveal her choice.

Before making her decision, Pangina said: ‘I am not playing favouritism. I’ve known everyone for the same amount of time but I am choosing this person out of the idea of which show was original and I have made the decision that I am sending Lemon home. I’m sorry.’

Upon leaving the competition, RuPaul told Lemon: ‘Lemon, you are and always will be a global phenomenon. Now, Sashay Away.’

Lemon said: ‘I’m pretty crushed. I feel very, very heartbroken. I’m proud of what I did and I’m proud of what I put forward. I don’t think Pangina made the right choice but hopefully, Jimbo will bring back that crown [to Canada]. I couldn’t take over the world here but, I’ll take over the world somewhere else.’

Of course, Lemon left in style, writing in the werkroom mirror: ‘Love you all. Not a bitter Lemon. See you on tour. XoXo, Lemon.’

Drag Race UK Vs The World saw iconic queens return to the runway, including UK stars Baga Chipz, Cheryl Hole, and Blu Hydrangea.

Drag Race UK Vs The World returns Tuesday at 9pm on BBC Three and BBC iPlayer.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Drag Race UK Versus The World: Meet the queens in BBC Three series as they promise ‘drama’ and a ‘wild’ competition, from Baga Chipz to Jujubee

MORE : Drag Race UK Versus The World star Baga Chipz teases ‘explosive’ drama in international spin-off: ‘I kick off!’