Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has thanked Arsenal fans for their support after leaving the club by mutual consent and says he was ‘sad’ he was unable to contribute after being banished from the squad.

Minutes before Monday’s transfer deadline, the north London club agreed to rip up Aubameyang’s contract in order to allow him to join Barcelona on a free transfer.

The striker is now effectively a free agent and can sign for the Catalan club after the close of the January window, with Barca hoping to officially unveil their latest acquisition on Wednesday morning.

Aubameyang had not played for Arsenal since the start of December after a fresh disciplinary issue saw him stripped of the captaincy by manager Mikel Arteta, who also exiled him from the squad.

The 32-year-old has now briefly addressed the sour end to his career at the Emirates in a post on social media, thanking Arsenal fans for their support and insisting he was always committed to the club.

Writing on Instagram, Aubameyang said: ‘To the Arsenal fans, thank you for making London home for myself and my family for the past four years.

‘We went through ups and downs together and your support meant everything to me.

‘Having the chance to win trophies and the honour of being the captain of this club is something I will forever keep in my heart.

‘I have always been 100% focused and committed on doing everything I can for this club which is why leaving without a real goodbye hurts – but that is football.

‘I’m sad I did not get the chance to help my teammates in the last few weeks, but I have nothing but respect for this club and truly wish all my guys and the fans all the best and many successful years in the future! Love, Auba.’

Aubameyang netted 92 goals in 163 matches for the Gunners in all competitions during his four years with the club, helping the side win the FA Cup.

MORE : Rio Ferdinand sends message to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang over Barcelona move and defends Arsenal

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.