Former President Donald Trump tore up some of the White House records that have been handed over to the House select committee investigating the January 6 Capitol riot, according to the National Archives.

The panel has obtained more than 700 pages including handwritten notes, diaries, speeches, remarks and schedules, after the Supreme Court rejected Trump’s attempt to stop the Archives from providing them.

On Tuesday, the Archives revealed to CNN: ‘Some of the Trump presidential records received by the National Archives and Records Administration included paper records that had been torn up by former President Trump.’

The Archives did not disclose how officials were aware that Trump personally ripped the documents. However, the agency raised previous reports that staff of White House records management taped up records that were torn apart during the previous administration.

‘These were turned over to the National Archives at the end of the Trump Administration, along with a number of torn-up records that had not been reconstructed by the White House,’ the Archives stated.

‘The Presidential Records Act requires that all records created by presidents be turned over to the National Archives at the end of their administrations.’

President Joe Biden set the foundation for records to be shared with the committee, by waiving executive privilege on behalf of Trump in October. Trump sued to try to stop the documents from being sent, but the courts sided with the panel.

‘We’re glad the Supreme Court ruled in our favor that we may have access to them,’ the committee’s chairman, Democratic Rep Bennie Thompson told CNN as records were received. ‘And we look forward to the National Archives getting them to us.’

Politico first reported back in 2018 that the White House had staff who spent time reconstructing documents that Trump had ripped apart.

On Tuesday, Trump also stated that his vice president, Mike Pence, should be probed by the committee because he ‘did not send back the votes for recertification or approval, in that it has now been shown that he clearly had the right to do so!’

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.