Calling all true crime addicts: 2022 promises a whole host of chilling new series to get your teeth in to.

Last year threw up its fair share of true crime, with Murder Among the Mormons, Night Stalker, and The Ripper – but this year is looking even more macabre.

If you enjoyed The Staircase, Abducted in Plain Sight, Evil Genius, and The Keepers (to name a few), then these new and upcoming documentaries are sure to scratch your morbid itch.

Here are the most highly-anticipated documentaries, plus information on where to stream them.

From the director of Don’t F**k with Cats comes a romance with a dark twist.

This documentary follows the victims of Shimon Hayut, a con man who wooed the women he met on Tinder into giving him hundreds of thousands of dollars, posing as Russian oligarch – and man of their dreams – Simon Leviev.

In 2015, celebrity restauranteur and ‘Queen of Vegan Cuisine’ Sarma Melngailis disappeared after embezzling millions of dollars from her raw-food eatery Pure Food and Wine.

It turned out that she was conned by a man who convinces her that he can expand her food empire and make her beloved pit bull immortal – as long as she never questions his increasingly bizarre requests.

This documentary explores the chilling true story behind one of the world’s most popular horror flicks, Scream.

Where to watch: Discovery+ on Sky

The global hit Tiger King will return to Netflix for more madness and mayhem.

Find out what the cast of crazy characters have been up to since they exploded into your homes in 2020.

Where to watch: Netflix (streaming now)

This three-part series tells the jaw-dropping story of one of the world’s most infamous conmen who was convicted in 2005 for stealing fortunes and destroying multiple lives.

Where to watch: Netflix (streaming now)

Finding Kendrick Johnsons follows the controversy surrounding the mysterious death of Kendrick Johnson, a black teenager whose body was discovered inside a school gym.

Where to watch: Amazon Prime Video (streaming now)

Trust No One: The Hunt for the Crypto King

Follow a group of investors turned sleuths as they try to unlock the suspicious death of cryptocurrency multimillionaire Gerry Cotten and the missing $250 million (£185 million) they believe he stole from them.

This docuseries takes place in 1970s New York City, a time where the ‘Torso Killer’ preys on women to fulfill his grotesque fantasies while eluding police.

It is the second installment in the Crime Story documentary series, following Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel – which investigated the mysterious death of Elisa Lam.

Where to watch: Netflix (streaming now)

This four-parter has actually been out for a few months now, but we feel like it just hasn’t gotten enough attention.

The docuseries will convince you that Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) and Pyramid Schemes are the same thing as it details the scams and jaw-dropping leadership decisions that went into growing the women’s internet apparel brand LuLaRoe.

With more and more people being sucked into MLMs in an attempt to solve their money-problems, there has never been a better time to educate yourself on the dark side of the schemes.

Where to watch: Amazon Prime Video (streaming now)

Season 2 of hit show Catching Killers has returned to our screens.

The series sees the investigators behind infamous serial killer cases revealing the harrowing, chilling details of their extraordinary efforts to catch the murderers in the name of justice.

Where to watch: Netflix (February 9 – season 1 is available to stream now)

This documentary is sure to feed your fear of flying.

Investigators reveal how Boeing’s shocking alleged priority of profit over safety could have contributed to two catastrophic crashes within months of each other, killing 346 people.

MORE : Netflix unveils dramatic trailer for new true-crime documentary The Tinder Swindler – and we’re already hooked

MORE : Gruesome true story that inspired original Scream movie and will chill you to the bone

Follow Metro across our social channels, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram

Share your views in the comments below