Simon Cowell was reportedly rushed to hospital following another e-bike crash, with the star ‘lucky to be alive’.

The star was admitted to hospital with suspected concussion and a broken arm after the crash in West London, according to reports, which came just 18 months after his crash in Los Angeles.

A source said: ‘Simon is lucky to be alive.

‘He was pedalling along, with his electric motor on, when the wheels suddenly went from under him after hitting a wet patch.’

They added to The Sun: ‘He slipped and went flying over the handlebars into the middle of the road.’

Simon has reportedly said he’s not ditching his bike, despite the two crashes.

The music mogul broke his back in the previous accident in Los Angeles, but later insisted he wouldn’t change anything about it.

Speaking to ex Terri Seymour on ExtraTV, Simon said: ‘My most creative time is now when I cycle, because I cycle even though it’s an e-bike. I still got to pedal and I do about ten miles a day, even though I had an accident on one.

‘That was more an electric motorbike, these are called pedal-assist bikes and they’re brilliant.’

He also didn’t lack confidence when it came to riding a bike for the first time again, and he supposedly feels ‘better’ than ever.

‘That expression “get back on your bike,” with me, it was literal. I feel better than I did because I exercise so much more,’ Simon confessed.

‘Honestly, if I could rewind, I would have gone through the whole thing again. Just because I feel better now. Yeah, even though it hurt like hell at the time.’

Metro.co.uk has contacted reps for Simon Cowell for comment.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Britain’s Got Talent: Amanda Holden ‘raging at Simon Cowell’ for making adult bedroom joke during contestant’s audition

MORE : Britain’s Got Talent: Simon Cowell ‘explodes’ at David Walliams over flirty penis joke aimed at contestant