It could be curtains for Callum Highway (Tony Clay) and Ben Mitchell’s (Max Bowden) marriage in EastEnders, after Ben failed to turn up to Callum’s special event in the Square.

The couple have had a lot to deal as of late, after they were assaulted in a homophobic attack at the beginning of the year.

Ben has been particularly hard on himself, given that he froze while Callum was attacked, but it soon came to light that the incident brought back memories of Paul Coker’s (Jonny Labey) death.

He struggled to open up to Callum about his trauma, but following a heart-to-heart with Pam (Lin Blakely), he told his husband that he wanted them to hide who they truly are from the outside world so that they would never be subjected to homophobic abuse again.

Callum, however, refused to live ‘in the closet’, and thus conflict ensued between the two.

Things reached boiling point on Friday (January 28), when Ben gave ill Stuart (Ricky Champ) money to abscond from the hospital ahead of his cancer surgery.

His actions left Callum appalled, but the copper soon discovered that Ben was deliberately trying to push him away so that they would split up, as he didn’t want to put him in danger by being with him.

Callum, however, was determined to fight for his man, and he made that quite clear during Tuesday’s (February 1) offering of the BBC One soap.

Ben, meanwhile, opened up, telling his husband that he carries Paul’s death with him every single day of his life, and therefore he won’t let the same thing happen to him.

‘Then let’s get a divorce!’, he said, stunning Ben to silence. ‘So that when I am set upon for being gay, you don’t have to watch anymore.

‘Is that what you want? Us two not being together?

Ben didn’t answer. It’s clear that this is the opposite of what he wants. Callum therefore reiterated how much he loves Ben, making it clear that he doesn’t care who hears it.

The copper has vowed to stand up to hate and publicly declare his feelings for his husband, and therefore he organised a party outside The Prince Albert, which has been quiet since the bomb discovery at New Year’s Eve.

He pleaded with Ben to meet him outside the bar in one hour, if their marriage stands any hope of survival.

‘If you think our marriage has any future at all then come and stand by my side’, said Callum.

Ben, however, failed to show up. The question is: will his decision result in the end of their relationship?

Will they get divorced, like Callum suggested? Say it ain’t so!

EastEnders continues Thursday February 3 at 7:30pm on BBC One.

If you’ve got a soap or TV story, video or pictures get in touch by emailing us soaps@metro.co.uk – we’d love to hear from you.

Join the community by leaving a comment below and stay updated on all things soaps on our homepage.

MORE : EastEnders spoilers: Mick’s new romance revealed as he moves on from Linda