Jac Naylor (Rosie Marcel) had Nicky McKendrick (Belinda Owusu) jumping through hoops in tonight’s Holby City. When the daughter of one of the people Cameron murdered was brought to Darwin needing urgent heart surgery, Nicky insisted she couldn’t treat her. The patient, Patricia (Kimberley Okoye), was equally keen to have Nicky nowhere near her.

When Patricia’s condition deteriorated, Jac insisted that Nicky had to do the operation that could save her life. Eli (Davood Ghadami) was furious, saying that Jac was undermining him.

But what Jac was actually doing was testing Nicky, both her skills and her nerve. When Nicky passed this test, and also decided to permanently hand her daughter Juliet to the Ebrahimis, it was clear that in her own way Nicky is as focused and single-minded as Jac is about her career.

This was what Jac needed to hear, because after Eli repeatedly refused to do the hyper-risky surgery that just might save Jac’s life, Jac needed someone else who wold be prepared to do it, as dangerous as it will be.

Jac wasn’t sure Nicky was quite ready for it, but Nicky says she’s going to practise every day in the wet lab until Jac has confidence in her.

Is Jac taking advantage of someone who’s young and relatively inexperienced to do something that a more experienced surgeon would avoid? And how will Nicky cope if it goes wrong and she ends up killing her mentor? She may live to regret her decision.

Another question on our minds has to be – will we be seeing Serena Campbell (Catherine Russell) back at Holby soon? At the end of the episode Donna (Jaye Jacobs) said that Serena was getting on a plane for Holby after her nephew Jason (Jules Robertson) was hurt in a car accident. With his wife Greta also hurt and recovering at St James’s, someone needs to be there to look after their daughter Guinevere.

Donna is temporarily looking after Guinevere, after she spent her shift looking after the little girl, being a first class scrub nurse in theatre and generally being brilliant. She got no recognition for it, though. ‘Everyone expects me to be there all the time,’ she complained. ‘What happens if you did have to do it without me?’ Let’s hope we never have to find out.

Meanwhile Madge (Clare Burt) has been lured to the dark side (St James’s) by Regina (Karen Ascoe), after Regina noticed that Madge was having money worries. She’s more or less offered her the Director of Nursing job at St James’s, in return for Madge reporting back to her on whatever Jac might be up to in the campaign to save Holby merging with its local rival.

Max (Jo Martin) and Ange (Dawn Steele)’s friendship continues to be a source of some lovely scenes, as Max tried to get Ange to compare and contrast her fiancé Josh (Trieve Blackwood-Cambridge) and her ex, Fletch (Alex Walkinshaw). And when Ange complained that Josh didn’t seem to be getting on board with their wedding plans, Max had a solution. She pretended to Josh that Ange was aiming to go for a traditional Scottish look for the wedding, meaning he’d be required to wear a kilt.

This was enough to get him grabbing for the wedding magazines and deciding to take over some of the planning himself. ‘I’m definitely a trousers kind of guy,’ he told a confused but happy Ange.

MORE : Holby City spoilers: Jac prioritises future of Holby over her health

MORE : Holby City fans did not expect a bonkers tampon scene – but it happened

If you’ve got a soap or TV story, video or pictures get in touch by emailing us soaps@metro.co.uk – we’d love to hear from you.

Join the community by leaving a comment below and stay updated on all things soaps on our homepage.