Rio Ferdinand has wished Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang good luck at Barcelona and feels he could provide some much-needed experience at Camp Nou, while he has defended Arsenal’s decision to let him leave.

The Gabon international had not played for the Gunners since the start of December after the latest in a long line of disciplinary issues saw Mikel Arteta strip him of the captaincy and exile him from the squad.

Arsenal tried to sell Aubameyang in January but could not find a buyer, eventually agreeing to terminate his contract so Barcelona could sign him on a free transfer.

Although Barca are yet to confirm the 32-year-old’s arrival, because Arsenal terminated his contract before Monday’s 11pm deadline Aubameyang is now technically a free agent and can complete the move after the close of the January window.

There has been some criticism of Arsenal’s decision to let such a proven, quality player leave for nothing, with Piers Morgan particularly scathing, but Ferdinand feels it was the right decision.

Asked if Aubameyang’s move to Camp Nou represents a shift in the calibre of player the Catalan club could now attract, Ferdinand said on his FIVE YouTube channel: ‘No disrespect to the players that are going there but it’s very different now.

‘It’s like Man United, very different types of players are going there now and the players that they’re in the market for [are very different]. Barcelona are in a rebuilding process.

‘I think Xavi is looking at [Aubameyang] like someone who has something to prove, wants to play football, has experience and maybe can fit the style that he wants to play. That remains to be seen.

‘But Xavi has a lot of young players there that he’s building the team around and he does need experience.

‘And maybe someone like Aubameyang – who he probably feels he can rein in and refocus – might be an asset.

‘So I wish him good luck, because I think for both parties Aubameyang needed to leave. For his sake, for his footballing sake, but also for Arsenal’s sake.

‘You don’t want it as a club, a player hanging around who’s not really wanted at the football club by the manager.’

Aubameyang brings fresh firepower to Barcelona’s attack, along with fellow January recruits Ferran Torres and Adama Traore, while Arsenal will have to get by with just Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah until the end of the season.

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.