Strictly Come Dancing star Dan Walker couldn’t resist a cheeky dig at Boris Johnson, as he joked that he and his pro partner Nadiya Bychkova were ‘ambushed’ with a cake while out for dinner.

The BBC Breakfast host, 44, enjoyed a night out with the dancer and his fellow Strictly co-stars in Dan’s favourite curry house, the Prithiraj restaurant in Sheffield.

Taking to Instagram, Dan shared a group picture alongside his co-stars Rhys Stephenson, Tilly Ramsay, Nikita Kuzmin, Janette Manrara, Kai Widdrington, and even Mr Nasty Craig Revel Horwood joined them.

The star also took a moment to give the dining spot a shout-out after they surprised him and Nadiya with a personalised cake.

‘Oh… I forgot to say… thanks for the cake too,’ Dan wrote.

‘So kind of you @prithiraj_restaurant 🎂🤩🎂 By the way… @nadiyabychkova and I did share it around 😋 #AmbushedByACake.’

The dig was in reference to the Prime Minister who claimed he was taken by surprise by a baked birthday treat while speaking about alleged parties in Downing Street.

The Strictly gang, which includes series winner Rose Ayling- Ellis, John Whaite, and Maisie Smith, are currently delighting audiences across the country with their performances on the live tour.

Rumours have recently been swirling around the supposed romance between pros Nadiya and Kai, following the former’s recent split from her fiancé.

The pair were spotted kissing in new photos, following reports that they had been ‘dating for months’.

Elsewhere, professional dancer Amy Dowden was forced to miss the first few shows and later shared a candid selfie on Instagram, as she gave her followers an insight into life with a chronic illness.

Strictly Come Dancing is available to watch on BBC iPlayer.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Strictly star Rose Ayling-Ellis shows off her best ‘dancing queen’ moves with Giovanni Pernice backstage on Live Tour

MORE : Strictly’s Oti Mabuse hits back at vile racism and fat-shaming: ‘The more hate I receive the more reason to carry on doing my job’