Stop what you’re doing, the cast for Love Is Blind season two has been revealed.

The first series kept us glued to our screens in 2020 as Jessica Batten, Matthew Barnett, Lauren Speed, Giannina Gibelli and co attempted to find love in those infamous pods – with some couples still together to this day.

In case you’d forgotten, the dating show follows singletons as they get to know each other in tiny rooms, and eventually get engaged – without seeing their future spouse’s face.

After that all-important first meeting, things go at warp speed as they jet off on honeymoons before moving in together, with their weddings taking place weeks later.

Nick Lachey and wife Vanessa Minnillo are returning to the fold to present series two, with Netflix sharing a video unveiling the shiny new cast.

Real estate agent Shayne kicked things off by warning: ‘You’re going to be in for quite a ride. It’s going to be a lot of fun going forward with this.’

After Jessica’s pooch stole the show last time, newbie Mallory promised that we’ll be getting more pup content, stating that she hoped that her future partner likes ‘big dogs’ as she has a huge German Shepherd.

Natalie, a consulting manager, became an instant icon when she declared that the one thing she wanted to share with the love of her life is that she ‘has IBS and goes to the bathroom five times a day’.

Laughing at her candor, she added: ‘Hopefully he loves me for who I am and is still willing to get married to me.

‘Okay, maybe I shouldn’t say that? Is that too much?’

Adding some romance to proceedings, executive assistant Salvador concluded: ‘I’m most excited about finding a best friend; finding somebody to share experiences with.’

The season two trailer dropped last month, sending us into a tizz while giving us flashbacks to Gigi’s iconic, mud-covered flee from the alter.

The official synopsis from Netflix reads: ‘With no distractions from the outside world, the singles talk to a stream of potential love interests and when a meaningful connection is made, they propose and then lay their eyes on their fiancé for the first time.

‘Engaged and back in the real world, as the couples plan their wedding day, they will quickly discover whether they can turn their emotional connection into a physical one before the fast-approaching ceremony.’

Love Is Blind season two is released on Netflix on February 11.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Peter Jackson would have shouted at the Beatles if he had filmed Let It Be documentary: ‘Like herding cats’

MORE : Strictly’s Dan Walker ‘ambushed by a cake’ at favourite curry house as he pokes fun at Boris Johnson