Fiorentina president Rocco Commisso is angry about how Dusan Vlahovic left the club for Juventus, how he has been treated by fans ever since and he is not afraid to say so.

Vlahovic has been one of the transfer sagas of January, but eventually completed the switch to Juve last week in a deal worth £58m, plus £8m in add-ons.

This was after serious interest from other clubs, with Arsenal most notably pursuing the 22-year-old, but it was the giants from Turin who eventually got the talented striker.

Commisso is not impressed though, with almost anyone involved, and has hit out at the Serbian, his representatives and first the Fiorentina fans for giving him stick.

‘I am very disappointed by the criticism I’ve received, including words I cannot accept,’ Commisso said in an audio clip released by Fiorentina, via Football Italia.

‘I have to stop and reflect. I thought that I’d shown what my values are with my behaviour and what all of us have done for Fiorentina. The nastiness and insults I received over the last few days are unacceptable.’

Commisso then made some explosive claims about Vlahovic and his representatives, saying that they intended to let his contract expire in 2023 – something that would harm Fiorentina financially – but only after making it look like they would sign a new deal in November.

‘It was clear to everyone he already had a deal with someone. He said no to every offer. I went to England many times, each time he said no,’ said the president.

‘Vlahovic wanted to remain until his contract ran down and ruin Fiorentina. His agents wanted a 10 per cent cut of the transfer fee and exclusive rights to negotiate his next move. They wanted to make money off us, so selling him now was an excellent operation.

‘His agents were dishonest and liars. We had a good meeting in November, I expected a positive response for the morning after to sign the contract, instead he asked for double.’

The forward was unveiled by Juve on Tuesday and spoke of the ‘easy choice’ to move to Turin.

‘I am emotional and proud to have signed for Juventus,’ the Serbia international said at his unveiling. ‘I am ready to give my all for this glorious club to reach its objectives. There were many rumours about foreign clubs, but the choice was easy because the club and I have a similar DNA.

‘Fight and suffer when needed. I think it’s part of my mentality as well, so the choice was not difficult. I fit in here.’

MORE : Dusan Vlahovic explains ‘easy’ decision to snub Arsenal for ‘glorious’ Juventus

MORE : Dusan Vlahovic made the ‘wrong’ decision and should’ve joined Arsenal or Tottenham, says Antonio Cassano

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.