Tommy Lee has been spotted enjoying an NFL game as he prepares for the release of Pam and Tommy, which will delve into his relationship with Pamela Anderson.

The Motley Crue star looked engrossed in the game as he watched the Los Angeles Rams take on the San Francisco 49ers in the NFL NFC Championship.

Donning a green jacket and beanie, some of the 59-year-old’s distinctive tattoos could be seen on show.

Sebastian Stan is about to take on the role of the rocker in the new series, while Lily James will play Pamela in the series about their rocky relationship and the leaking of their sex tape.

Fans were left in awe at the pair’s transformations and, although Pamela seems less than impressed by the series, Tommy seems a little more on board.

The Baywatch star reportedly referred to it as ‘god-awful’, while Tommy apparently told his friend Guerin Swing (according to The Sun): ‘Let everyone know we did it first. Before the Kardashians, before anyone else. Let the mother-f***ers know, we broke the internet first.’

While there have been questions about why the sex tape was included, Lily also recently defended the scenes.

Speaking to The Sun, she said: ‘We really felt that the sex scenes had to be a part of the story and had to be essential to the script and progressing their relationship and looking at what happened.

‘It was a really great constant conversation and nothing was set in stone.’

Although the Downton Abbey star has been overwhelmed with praise, she came pretty close to quitting the series altogether.

‘I really wanted to pull out of this a week before,’ Lily told Variety.

‘It just felt too frightening. But I think that’s a good place to work from because it keeps you growing and getting better, I hope,’ she added.

Pam & Tommy is available to stream on Disney Plus from February 2.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Pam & Tommy: Sebastian Stan actually watched infamous sex tape as ‘research’ ahead of Tommy Lee role

MORE : Pam & Tommy: UK release date, cast and what you need to know