A landowner put up razor wire and ‘threw a branch’ at walkers who tried to use a footpath near her home, a court has heard.

Frances Payne became caught up in a row with ramblers when she accused them of straying onto her land near a beauty spot in Evesham, Worcestershire.

The 56-year-old was said to have blocked a path with barbed wire and chains and put up ‘keep out’ notices, even hurling a branch at two women who tried to get through the gate.

Payne said the row broke out after she was abused near her own home by walkers who ‘lacked common sense’ and ‘knowledge of the countryside code’.

But she was slapped with a community protection notice ordering her not to block off the footpath before she was later charged with a criminal behaviour order.

Magistrates found Payne guilty of displaying a sign with intent to cause harassment, alarm or distress and failing to comply with a community protection notice when she appeared in court in December.

She was also convicted of causing unnecessary suffering to a protected animal after failing to help a cat being killed by her dog.

Now, Payne has been given a five-year Criminal Behaviour Order and ordered to pay pet bills of £3,800 after she appeared at Kidderminster Magistrates Court today.

The court heard how on June 20, two members of the public found it difficult to gain access to Payne’s land after she ‘put up barriers and [was] aggressive towards them’.

They found a locked gate and were made to ‘feel uncomfortable’ as Payne ‘watched as they struggled to get over it’.

Payne was also found to have done ‘nothing to help’ when her dog attacked a cat.

The dog ‘inflicted grave injuries on the cat and it was crying in pain’ but Payne left the scene.

Owner Pauline Clark ‘found her cat dying in the street and spent £3,800 in vets’ bills’ but the animal later died.

Prosecutor Sarah Hurd said: ‘Pauline Clark says she found her cat in a terrible state, the cat was sadly put down.

‘She said “it has left me devastated, we were a team and now we’re not, I’m lost without him”.’

Forz Kahn, defending, said Payne had closed off the path to stop her sheep from escaping and was applying to the council to reroute it.

He added: ‘She locked it so her sheep could not escape onto the highway. She closed the gate.

‘She has now applied to local authority to reroute the path so her livestock are not in danger.

‘That locking of the gate was for hours, not days. When she was asked to open, she did.’

District Judge Ian Strongman gave Payne a five year CBO and ordered her to pay vets bills of £3,800 to Mrs Clarke, £100 each to two victims, prosecution costs of £1,000 and a victim surcharge of £22.

Speaking outside court afterwards, Payne said she would appeal the sentence.

‘I have applied to the council to have the footpath diverted. I will not give in to people who abuse other people’s land,’ she said.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.