Another Trump Administration would not tolerate the unfairness of men going into, and dominating, women’s sports, apparently. Speaking Saturday at a rally in Texas, former President Donald Trump promised that if given another four more years in the Oval Office he will ban the unfairness now taking place at Penn University and other schools.

“We will ban men from participating in women’s sports,” Trump told a crowd of conservative supporters. “So ridiculous.” His promise was answered with enthusiastic cheers.

Trump also addressed the transgender situation that is drawing the most attention right now: a male named Will Thomas, who goes by the female name “Lia,” who is destroying the competition and the records in college women’s swimming. Will Thomas began swimming for the Pennsylvania Quakers’ men’s swimming team in 2019. However, this season he magically transformed himself into a “woman” and is being allowed to make a mockery of the sport of women’s swimming.

“Did you see the man (NBC’s pro-trans reporter Jo Yurcaba whined that Trump “misgendered” Thomas) that was on a swimming team at a certain school that I know very well?” Trump asked. “The record held for like 11 years, he beat it by 38 seconds!” Trump attended Penn for two years and received his bachelor’s there in economics, in 1968.

Next, Trump turned to women’s weightlifting and discussed how Laurel Hubbard of New Zealand also destroyed women’s record in his sport. “But the best is the weightlifting records – they’re going,” Trump said. He jokingly exaggerated to some extent about Hubbard’s lifting weights with one hand. Trump’s lie counters will want to add this comment to their running list, but he was clearly going for laughs when he said:

The people in attendance recognized the humor of someone lifting weights with one hand and they laughed. Humorless lefties are likely yelling, “Another lie!”

“Take a look at the weightlifting records!” Trump continued. “You wanna see some real – think of it, two ounces is unacceptable, they beat ’em by many, many, many, many, many, many pounds.” This is definitely true. And it’s no joke to the female weightlifters Hubbard embarrassed with his records.

However, by the time Hubbard became the first trans competitor in Olympic history, in 2021, he was well past his prime. He had retired due to a “horrific elbow injury” (a ruptured ligament) in 2018, and then came back to compete again in 2019. It’s not surprising the oldest and perhaps most beat-up competitor in event failed to register a lift in Tokyo.

During the Trump Administration, the Department of Justice lent its support to a federal lawsuit filed by Connecticut high school girls against a policy allowing boys to compete in their events. Then Attorney General Will Barr argued the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference "deprives those women of the single-sex athletic competition that are one of the marquee accomplishments of Title IX."

The Biden Administration later acted against the integrity of women’s sports by dismissing the Connecticut lawsuit.