Liberal billionaire George Soros is back to his old tricks, trying to use gigantic cash flows to influence the outcome of U.S. elections. The ABC, CBS and NBC evening news shows are sweeping it under the rug.

Soros is seeding his leftist super PAC — Democracy PAC — with a whopping $125 million, according to ProPublica data. The billionaire reportedly told Politico in a Jan. 28 story that the new funding was supporting “pro-democracy ‘causes and candidates, regardless of political party’ who are invested in ‘strengthening the infrastructure of American democracy: voting rights and civic participation, civil rights and liberties, and the rule of law.’”

It’s laughable that Soros would even attempt to make his funding appear to be nonpartisan, given that his PAC funneled “more than $80 million to other Democratic groups and candidates during the 2020 election cycle,” as Politico noted. Soros’ radical son Alexander, is set to serve as Democracy PAC’s president. Politico said that George Soros’ funding would place him “among the biggest political givers of the midterms.”

Politico said the "mammoth donation is fueling investment in Democratic political groups and races from Senate to secretary of state around the country."

Of course, the Big Three evening news networks couldn’t be bothered to report on Soros’ antics. ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News ,and NBC Nightly News completely ignored the story during their Jan. 28 and Jan. 31 evening broadcasts.

Alexander Soros exploited the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol Hill riot to make himself and his father appear like patriots. Alexander reportedly decried to Politico the so-called “‘ongoing efforts to discredit and undermine our electoral process” and that they “‘reveal the magnitude of the threat to our democracy.’” But Alexander is being brazenly hypocritical. His father was recently part of a $59 million leftist effort during the 2020 electoral cycle to push the controversial practice of mail-in voting, the ballots of which Heritage Foundation Senior Fellow Hans Von Spakovsky said were the “most vulnerable to being altered, stolen, or forged.”

But just looking at Democracy PAC’s own sordid history of crisis exploitation to bolster its political ends shows the danger of its new cash haul by founder George Soros.

Democracy PAC contributed millions to leftist super PACS like Priorities USA Action ($5,500,000), American Bridge 21st Century PAC ($2,000,000) and the radical abortion group NARAL Freedom Fund ($1,000,000) during the 2020 cycle alone. Each had exploited the coronavirus pandemic to attack former President Donald Trump with venomous TV advertising.

Democracy PAC also funneled $2,500,000 into the racially charged, anti-police group Color of Change PAC during the 2020 electoral cycle. Color of Change PAC was behind a disgusting petition called “Cut Ties With The [Fraternal Order of Police] FOP.” FOP self-describes as “the voice of our nation’s law enforcement officers.” Color of Change PAC spewed metaphorical bile that the FOP was “the deadliest frat in the world.”

Conservatives are under attack. Contact ABC News (818)460-7477, CBS News (212)975-3247 and NBC News (212)-664-6192 and demand they report on Soros’ 2022 involvement in American politics.