Back when Las Vegas had more Gila monsters than visitors, a night club called the Pair O’Dice opened on what would eventually become the Las Vegas Strip. It thrived. In 1936, it was renamed the Ambassador; then it was renamed the 91 Club; then the Last Frontier; and then the New Frontier; and, in the late nineteen-sixties, the Frontier. For its rechristening as the Frontier, a big celebration was planned, and auditions for performers were held in Los Angeles. This was as wishy an opportunity as could be imagined: The night club, with its slogan, “Out of this World,” was by then one of the premier showcases in town. Elvis Presley had made his first Vegas appearance there. If you were, say, a young woman with a strong voice and huge aspirations, you would have pretty much died for a chance to be considered for a gig.

At that time, Chris Edwards Unruh (1942-2022) was a nurse at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center. She had learned to sing from her father, Tex Kerr, a guitar-playing cement-truck driver. (His favorite 1941 Gibson became a family heirloom.) Hers was a hardscrabble childhood—she and her siblings spent their spare time picking fruit and cotton in the fields of central California and northern Texas—but she always yearned to perform. A doctor she met at U.C.L.A. had taken a shine to her and underwrote the cost of her audition for the Frontier, which included buying her a stunning black sequinned dress with a yawning slit up the side. She won. Her performance at the Frontier was momentous in more than the expected ways. That night launched her career as a performer, and she eventually won a particularly important fan, namely, Jesse (Big Daddy) Unruh, one of California’s best-known and most flamboyant politicians. In 1960, Big Daddy was the southern California chair of John F. Kennedy’s Presidential campaign; in 1968, he headed the state campaign for Robert Kennedy, and was just steps behind the candidate when he was assassinated. Unruh became the speaker of the California state assembly, and, in 1975, he was elected state treasurer; the treasury building in Sacramento is named for him. He and Chris were a glamorous couple, flitting between political gatherings and night-club events. He liked to surprise her with furs and diamonds. Behind the glamour, Unruh was a dogged progressive: way back in 1959, he pushed through a pathbreaking state civil-rights act that outlawed discrimination by businesses, and he harried Ronald Reagan at every turn. He and Chris got married, in 1986, and she was shattered when he died of prostate cancer the following year.

Her daughter, Jessie Unruh Rojano, says that Chris withdrew after Big Daddy died. “But she was a very positive person,” Rojano said recently. “She made lemon martinis out of lemons.” In time, she emerged a little, began performing again, and perfected her style, which was to tool around in a snazzy car—first a silver Mercedes, then a red Cadillac DeVille—and to never go anywhere without dressing in a carefully curated outfit, a slash of red lipstick, and a pair of killer shoes—at first, she favored Jimmy Choos, but later she preferred one of her many pairs of crystal bling Helen’s Heart cowboy boots. People noticed her. She made friends wherever she went, connections that might start with a passerby commenting on her bubblegum-pink sequined boots, or whichever pair she happened to be wearing that day. She met her second husband, Rojano’s father, at a Cheesecake Factory, in much this way.

Her last husband, Mort Marker, came into her life through different means. One day in 1997, Unruh was driving from Palm Springs and took a detour to avoid a traffic jam. The detour led her up Mt. Baldy, a ski area in the San Gabriel Mountains, where she happened upon the Buckhorn Lodge, a nearly century-old property that had been for sale for a decade. The place was ramshackle and apparently unloved, but “a little dinginess never bothered her,” according to Rojano. Unruh decided to buy it, restore it, and turn it into a swinging spot. On weekends, the Fabulous Mrs. Unruh performed in the Buckhorn lounge, backed by her band, the Buckhorn Boys, with Marker, whom she married a few years ago, as the front man.

Mt. Baldy was hardly the Las Vegas Strip, but Unruh spared no effort in her shows. She sang a range of show tunes and cabaret and Patsy Cline. She navigated multiple costume changes. She would sashay around the room and throw a bow around the neck of whatever blushing young man caught her eye and serenade him with “The Lady Is a Tramp.” It was not a rare sight to catch her dancing on the bar. If someone in the crowd had a birthday, she went full Marilyn Monroe, crooning the sexiest “Happy Birthday” in San Bernardino County. After leaving the Buckhorn, in 2017, she continued to perform, appearing with Marker and the Buckhorn Boys at the Continental in Glendora, California, and Charlie’s Stars and Stripes, in Upland, and had been in talks to perform regularly at the Golden Spur, a steakhouse on Route 66, until the place was sold. She was seventy-nine years old—a fact that she preferred not to advertise—when she died, but she had no intention of giving up performing.

Her cowboy boots will be divided up among her descendants.

Afterword is an obituary column that pays homage to people, places, and things we’ve lost. To propose a subject for The New Yorker to cover in an Afterword piece, write to us at afterword@newyorker.com.