The alto saxophonist Immanuel Wilkins is in pursuit of epiphany. The twenty-four-year-old jazz artist has said that he aspires to sprezzatura—a studied nonchalance that enables unconscious, idiosyncratic performance—and wants his music to be guided by the divine. Plucked out of Juilliard, in 2017, and taken on tour by the pianist Jason Moran, Wilkins made his name playing for artists such as Wynton Marsalis, Bob Dylan, and Solange, and recording on projects for the vibraphonist Joel Ross and the double bassist Harish Raghavan. Now both an accomplished composer and bandleader, he seeks to realize Black spirituality in his sound, and to find God in his music—or, at least, in the act of playing it.

Wilkins started performing on sax in church, at the age of four. He learned jazz at the storied Philadelphia Clef Club of Jazz and Performing Arts, where he was introduced to jazz greats such as Marshall Allen and Mickey Roker. Since 2016, he’s played in a quartet with Daryl Johns on bass, Kweku Sumbry on drums, and Micah Thomas on piano. Each player has his own religious outlook, but shares Wilkins’s conception of jazz as a conduit for worship. As a Philly native, Wilkins counts John Coltrane—whose home in the city’s Strawberry Mansion neighborhood is like a house of worship for jazz devotees—as an important influence on his music. With Coltrane’s vision of Black consciousness and spirituality as a guide, Wilkins’s music explores Black religiosity as a corrective to secular injustice.

On his 2020 début for Blue Note Records, “Omega,” which Moran produced, Wilkins depicted the Black experience as harrowing, beautiful, and consistently guided by faith. Songs referencing the lynching of Mary Turner and the shooting of Michael Brown, each appended with the tag “An American Tradition,” hinted at recurrent Black trauma with striking compositions that were both, by turns, chaotic and enthralling. On the former track, Wilkins’s sax screams out, interrupting a flitting, panicked tune; on the latter, he plays screeching notes that whiz out from the racket of his rhythm section. But the record also recognizes the Black church as a sanctuary from violence. “The Dreamer,” inspired by a poem by James Weldon Johnson (the lyricist of the hymn “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” which is widely known as the Black national anthem), is ruminative and full of longing, with gospel voicings that nod to the reassuring influence of Sunday services.

Wilkins sees the process of music-making as a religious experience in itself. “I’m trying to write music that facilitates a space for us to be religious vessels for the music—have us actually act as vessels for Jesus,” he told Jazz Speaks in 2018. For him, such an encounter can be articulated through jamming—through surrendering to songs and allowing the music to reveal itself. Wilkins’s new album, “The 7th Hand,” seeks Providence; the record attempts to define the role of ritual in Black spirituality, particularly the communal rite of performing with a band and serving as part of a whole.

The record’s brilliance lies in its effortless sense of unity; the interconnectivity of the performers feels entirely instinctive. (Wilkins opted to produce this album himself, in an effort to preserve his tight-knit band’s natural chemistry and closeness.) On “Don’t Break,” the sax and piano melodies overlap, as if setting a stage for the expanded drum section, played by the Farafina Kan Percussion Ensemble. When the band incorporates the flutist Elena Pinderhughes across two later tracks, it is as if the players have seamlessly realigned themselves to maintain musical equilibrium. On “Witness,” the drums recede into the background and Wilkins reins in his incendiary playing to give his twittering guest space to roam freely. They reconvene for “Lighthouse,” which makes the bedlam of bop sound calculated.

The music gets less and less constructed over the course of the album, but the players stay tethered together through their uncanny feel for one another. Even when ad-libbing, they find a balance between spontaneity and order. “Fugitive Ritual, Selah” is calm and reflective, turning over the same phrase repeatedly, with Wilkins’s plaintive sax underscored by soft, sobering work on the keys. His bleats whimper out in the early stages of the noirish “Shadow,” circling the track until the entire arrangement comes undone and his sublime playing loosens. In the fluidity and harmony of unscripted performance, Wilkins invites flickers of divine intervention.

Instruments are vessels for players, but “The 7th Hand” asks if players themselves can be vessels for something greater. The delivery certainly makes it feel like something is being conjured. The songs here build to an epic, fully improvised, twenty-six-minute conclusion, “Lift,” which evokes possession by the Holy Spirit. The song rarely dips in intensity for its entire run, and Wilkins’s sax reëmerges at several key moments to reëstablish the tone and pace: he opens with scattering notes, drops into nearly inaudible foghorn-like rips, ascends to points of instrumental virtuosity, and finishes pushing long, puffed inflections out over mashed piano chords. Throughout the track, the movement is uproarious, prone to outbursts, gurgling bass, chattering drums, and squawking sax. In this last stage of the band’s transcendent journey, the four players seem to give themselves up to an unseen power.