In 2018, the US attorney in Delaware began quietly investigating Hunter Biden’s financial activities. The probe was slowed in 2020 as the presidential election approached, but still: It’s now February 2022; how much longer will the feds take?

At this point, we have to wonder if any investigation would still be underway were it not for the laptop Hunter abandoned in 2019 and The Post’s reporting off it.

That, after all, dragged evidence of Hunter’s dubious doings into the light (despite the best efforts of the media and Big Tech to suppress our reporting). Business dealings plainly greased by his father’s international connections and domestic political might — and apparently to now-President Joe Biden’s own profit.

It’s tricky for any Justice Department to investigate the president and his family. And this one has already shown clear signs of politicization, with Attorney General Merrick Garland himself playing along with a White House cabal eager to put the fear of the FBI in parents who want to speak their minds at local school-board meetings.

It’s past time for Garland to explain why he hasn’t named a special counsel.

This idea has been batted around at least since Hunter’s smelly art sales surfaced. And the drip of damning news has only continued: a former business partner “co-operating completely” with the feds; congressional allegations that the Secret Service improperly redacted records relating to Hunter’s travels; news that Hunter’s bank records on his dealings with the Bank of China were subpoenaed in May 2015.

That is, the feds have been looking at Hunter since the Obama administration. Given all this, Biden should have put the probe under impartial supervision long ago. In between, Justice has managed to fully investigate, for example, everything about then-President Donald Trump’s supposed collusion with Russia — albeit via a special counsel.

And: Can you imagine the howls of outrage if Trump had inherited an investigation of Eric or Don Jr. in his first term and left it in the hands of a Justice Department staffed by his own appointees?

Unless and until Garland produces an explanation for why he’s avoided an independent prosecutor, or his minions actually bring charges, Americans have every reason to suspect politics is standing in the way of justice.