Sex. We all want it. We all crave it. It’s a basic human desire.

When it comes to the zodiac, each sign has a different way that they like to get it on. While it’s always important to know the full breakdown of your (or your crush’s) birth chart, you can still learn a lot about how someone enjoys sex by knowing their sun sign.

Whether you’re a more sensual zodiac sign or one that loves spontaneity or kink, sex is a form of communicating in the most primal of ways. Seduction, flirtation, chemistry and attraction all tie into how we play the game of sex and love.

For added layers of info about compatibility, knowing your Mars sign and Venus sign also helps, too. Since I’m a pop culture astrologer that specializes in sex and love, let’s get naughty and see how the signs get sweaty beneath the sheets!

Ruled by fiery Mars, Aries have a high sex drive and aren’t afraid to jump into the heat of the moment. Their intense libidos cause them to need a great deal of sex casually or in a relationship. However, when it comes to getting it on, they don’t need love to be on the top of their priority list—all they need is passion and chemistry. Sex with an Aries is often fast-paced, highly energetic and athletic. Of all the zodiac signs, they’re fine with a quickie as long as there are sparks. Also, because they can be so assertive and aggressive, they’re often unafraid to take the lead.

Ruled by sensual Venus, Tauruses are deeply romantic. As an Earth sign, they are a lusty bunch that favors the activation of all of their senses during sexual experiences. They are the most physical and tangible lovers in the zodiac, and because of this, prefer long marathon sessions without any need to rush. The entire dance of seduction, foreplay and intercourse are far more important to these bulls rather than just a quick orgasm. However, because they have such deep resources of passion, they can have extremely intense sexual experiences. More often than not, this zodiac sign prefers monogamy, intimacy or consistency with their partners and tends to enjoy cuddling afterwards, too.

Like a whirlwind, Geminis like sex that is spontaneous, impulsive and adventurous. Ruled by Mercury, they enjoy experimentation and versatility in their sex lives, too. Whether single or attached, they need spice and surprise in order to keep them on their toes. Also, as an air sign, they can be especially intellectual when it comes to sex, usually engaging in witty banter to seduce their partner, as well as being highly vocal during intercourse. These people do not often need romance or commitment to get them into bed — just the excitement of a hot time with a sexy person to add to their bragging rights. A sense of mischief will bring a Gemini the excitement that they crave.

Emotional and sensitive, Cancers like sex that feels connected and safe. While it may take a bit for them to open up from beneath their shell, they are also a water sign and favor their feelings over lustful needs. This is why a Cancer craves sexual experiences that are filled with trust, honesty and integrity rather than casual flings. Greatly sensual, they favor commitment, consistency and monogamy. Intimacy and vulnerability are two of the most important things for them in erotic experiences, as if they’re sharing a sacred moment with their partner. They are especially giving lovers, eager to please and grow closer through the passionate rapport.

Fiery Leo loves sex like it’s a circus — and they’re the main event. As one of the most lusty zodiac signs of all, these lions live for the passion of the hunt. As natural romantics, they love connection, but when it comes to getting down and dirty, they are fine for a hot romp with a sexy partner as long as it’s fierce and intense. While they put a higher priority upon their pleasure over anyone else’s, once a Leo has found someone who knows how to hit their sweet spot, they’ll also be happy to flip the dynamic and please another. Sex is loud, sweaty and feisty, just how they like it. However, Leos aren’t just a one-and-done crew. They often take great pleasure in the sensual aspects of lovemaking, especially massage and caressing.

As an Earth sign, Virgos are especially sensual and affectionate when it comes to sex. Respecting one another’s boundaries is also important to this zodiac sign, as they are often not the type to leap into the heat of the moment without first trusting someone, too. While they may initially present themselves as proper and detached, they are also quite lusty with someone that they genuinely trust and care for. Also, as a very giving sign, they like to please their partner and take great pride in doing so. Highly intellectual, as they are ruled by Mercury, they can also get into verbal and intellectual seduction. However, because they are drawn to quirks, Virgos are often open to toys, kinks and experimentation with someone they value.

Expressive and passionate, Libras live for connection. As one of the most romantic zodiac signs of all, they crave erotic experiences with someone who mirrors them. In dating or commitment, they often like to trade off roles of dominant or submissive. However, in casual encounters, Libras value respect and fairness and often use charm to seduce others their way. Ruled by Venus, they enjoy their ability to lure in conquests so that others end up taking the lead. As an air sign, they often enjoy wit, communication and laughter in their sexual experiences too, bringing dialogue and discussion into the bedroom. As softly sensual individuals, sex is often more rhythmic and focused on eye connection rather than just getting off.

Ruled by Mars and Pluto, Scorpios are known as the “sex sign.” This makes them deeply passionate, erotic and magnetic. As one of the most intense zodiac signs, these people crave experiences that push their sexuality to the limits. They hunger for union on a psychological and physical level, turning their interactions into transformative situations that leave them and their partner in a whole new headspace. As a water sign, they value deep emotional connection in their romps, but do not ultimately require commitment. Instead, they prefer to use sex as a form of power to own others and uncover unforgettable experiences for themselves.

Ruled by Jupiter, Sagittarius is expansive and spontaneous when it comes to sex. This zodiac sign is a fire sign, making it especially lusty and adventurous. They continuously hunger for new experiences, with a nearly insatiable appetite for surprise. Often times, they like sex to be casual and regular, unafraid of exploring new options, positions and types of people. Because of this, they are often referred to as the “bachelor of the zodiac,” running from commitment in order to pursue as many different conquests as possible. The more inventive and lively the sex, the happier a Sagittarius will be. In fact, as soon as sex becomes boring, a Sagittarius will leave someone in the dust.

As an Earth sign, Capricorns are very sensual and physical when it comes to sex. They are not quite as experimental as others, favoring practicality, consistency and familiarity over adventurous impulse. However, this zodiac sign is symbolized by the ram — meaning it has horns — and is one of the lustiest of all. They hunger for passionate romps with someone who will submit to them and their desires, particularly because they need to be assured that they’re going to get off just how they like it every single time. Sex is often highly affectionate and requires a sense of trust.

Ruled by Uranus, Aquarians like sex that thinks outside of the box. As an air sign, they often take an intellectual approach to sexual experiences. This can lead them to categorizing, analyzing and exploring a vast array of different styles, partners or situations. On one hand, this can lead some Aquarians to prefer nontraditional sex or partnership. To these people, sex is an exploration of the human mind and psychology. Because of this detached emotional perspective, they are free to investigate unique tools, positions and roles that other zodiac signs would never even dream up as a possibility.

Ruled by Neptune, Pisceans are dreamy romantics. This means that they often crave sexual experiences that lift their spirits and get them out of their heads. As a water sign, they are especially sensual, emotional and sensitive, finding that when trust and vulnerability are involved, it can help them to hit their greatest points in ecstasy. In many ways, the greatest erotic interactions for a Pisces are when they feel that the situation is bringing their soul closer to someone else. Because of this, situations are often more soft, sweet and intimate.

Astrology 101: Your guide to the stars
• What are the astrology houses?
• Sun, moon and rising signs: Get to know your Big 3

Kyle Thomas is a globally recognized pop culture astrologer who has been featured in ”Access Hollywood,” E! Entertainment, NBC & ABC television, Cosmopolitan Magazine, Hulu, Bustle, Elite Daily, Marie Claire and more. He is known for his cosmic guidance for celebrities, business executives and prominent influencers. His work harnesses the power of the stars in regards to entertainment lifestyle and trends affecting people worldwide. For more information, visit KyleThomasAstrology.com.