The Issue: Whoopi Goldberg’s comment that the Holocaust was not about race but “man’s inhumanity.”

Whoopi Goldberg’s denial that the Holocaust had anything to do with race was absurd (“Whoopi’s Holocaust shocker,” Feb. 1).

She clearly lacked any historical and contextual knowledge of Holocaust studies.

The Nazis saw everything through the lens of race and ethnicity, based on the now discredited science of eugenics.

It does not matter that the Nazis were wrong on the social construct known as race. The Nazi idea of Aryan superiority is well-documented. The Nazi final solution was about the Jews.

By denying an important element of the Holocaust, Whoopi becomes a nuanced and selective Holocaust denier.

Her apology on Stephen Colbert’s show did not go far enough.

If Whoopi Goldberg were a white male, she would have been fired by ABC the minute that episode of “The View” aired.

Her insincere half-apology falls flat. Time to take these racist women off the air. They have long overstayed their welcome. I’m sure Barbara Walters is mortified!

Goldberg’s out­rageous comments on the Holocaust should come as no surprise.

Whoopi’s whoops on “The View” are but a reflection of the opinions voiced by some on both sides of the political aisle relating to the Holocaust, the state of Israel and the Jewish people.

Downplaying or denying the slaughter of 6 million innocents who were identified as subhuman and an alien race or referring to Israel as an apartheid state has helped perpetuate the age-old scourge of anti-Semitism.

Whoopi’s words say it all.

Whoopi said that the Holocaust was not about race. She is incredibly ignorant and spread false information to millions of viewers.

The Germans considered Jews a race, not a religion. So yeah, it was racist. In Germany’s mind, it was about race.

They killed people even if they were not practicing Judaism.

Whoopi should not be on TV or in the media propagating false information.

Whoopi’s empty-headed minimization of the horror of the Holocaust — reducing it to man’s inhumanity to man — was both disgusting and dumbfounding.

The otherwise relatively intelligent talk-show host has stepped in it before, but this was a deep dive into mud.

Whoopi subsequently issued an apology for her totally insensitive sanitizing remark, and so this ugly little episode will go down as just another dizzy day on The View.

I’m not a big Whoopi fan, nor an admirer of “The View” and the Joy Behar contingent.

But Whoopi is right. The Holocaust was not about race, even though the Nazis claimed racial superiority as their motivation. Lots of nuts claim the same thing for their nefarious ends. Look at subway pushers and other mentally ill people.

It was certainly about man’s inhumanity towards man. It was evil and malicious.

So Whoopi spoke her truth. Did she ever hear that speaking is like ringing a bell? It can’t be unrung, no matter how her PR team tries to spin it.

She said it, we heard it and now she tries to disown it. Others have lost careers for so much less.

Stop talking over people and read a history book. You have much to learn. Time for you to retire to the Screen Actors Guild retirement home for useless has-beens.

I, for one, do not believe Whoopi’s lame apology for stating that the Holocaust was not about race.

I will definitely pass that information onto my relatives who were gassed at Auschwitz, telling them that it wasn’t because they were Jews, since they were white. Thank you, Whoopi, for clarifying that fact.

Want to weigh in on today’s stories? Send your thoughts (along with your full name and city of residence) to letters@nypost.com. Letters are subject to editing for clarity, length, accuracy and style.