Whoopi Goldberg stoked more controversy on Monday evening when she tried to apologize for saying the ‘Holocaust isn’t about race’ by asserting race is only about skin color and the Nazis ‘had to do the work’ to find out who was Jewish.

Honestly, there is so much wrong here, I trow not where to begin. First of all, in typical Liberal fashion, the never-funny host of The View, Whoopi Goldberg, thinks that racism is something that can only be perpetrated by ‘white people’. It doesn’t get more ignorant that that unless you were to compound that stupidity with statements like the Nazi Holocaust was ‘not about race’, and that the ‘Jews are white people’. Are you kidding me? How is it possible Whoopi was not immediately put on suspension for saying this obvious anti-semitic garbage? You know why. It’s because she’s a Liberal and she’s black, so she is not held accountable for her words because racism.

“The Lord was as an enemy: he hath swallowed up Israel, he hath swallowed up all her palaces: he hath destroyed his strong holds, and hath increased in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.” Lamentations 2:5 (KJB)

The Jews are indeed a race of people, God’s own people chosen in the ‘furnace of affliction’, your King James Bible tells us. While some of them may be light-skinned, they are not ‘white people’ from the Caucasoid region of Europe where we get the term ‘Caucasian’ from. Secondly, the Nazi Holocaust was at its core racist, and while the concentration camps murdered 6 million mixed-race gentiles, its main target was to extinguish one race of people, the Jews. Whoopi Goldberg would call for the immediate canceling of anyone who made the same remarks that came from her own mouth, and yet, she feels a lukewarm and insincere ‘apology’ suffices for her grievous verbal spewing. Whoopi Goldberg is a racist, she should be fired from The View, and if she was white she would be. Now who’s the racist?

Whoopi Goldberg, 66, on Monday sparked uproar when she claimed on The View that the Holocaust was ‘not about race’ because it was white people killing white people

FROM THE DAILY MAIL UK: During an interview on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert after her comments on The View about the Holocaust caused international outcry, Goldberg, 66, said she understood why she had angered people. But she didn’t stop there, and instead tried to explain why she thought the killing of six million Jews by the Nazis was not about race because Jews are white.

‘When you talk about being a racist, you can’t call this racism,’ she said. ‘This was evil. This wasn’t based on skin. You couldn’t tell who was Jewish. You had to delve deeply and figure it out. My point is: they had to do the work. If the Klan is coming down the street and I’m standing with a Jewish friend, I’m going to run, but if my friend decides not to run, they’ll get passed by most times because you can’t tell who is Jewish. You don’t know.’

Her appearance on Colbert, where she also plugged her return to the Star Trek franchise, came hours after she apologized for her comments earlier that day.

‘The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people — who they deemed to be an inferior race. I stand corrected,’ she tweeted.

‘The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused.’

Goldberg’s remarks sparked fury around the world, including in the UK, with many criticizing the actress for her misunderstanding. In the UK, high profile politician and judge Justice David Wolfson referred to a speech he had made about ‘universities being at the forefront of tackling anti-semitism’. While British comedian David Baddiel said he appreciated Whoopi’s statement about reconsidering what she had said about race.

The Manhattan-born Academy Award winning actress and comedian, who has hosted The View since 2007, told Colbert that she received plenty of criticism over her remarks.

‘It upset a lot of people, which was never ever ever my intention,’ Goldberg said. ‘People were very angry, and said no, we are a race. And I understand. I felt differently. I respect everything everyone is saying to me. I don’t want to fake apologize.

‘I am very upset that people misunderstood what I was saying. And because of it they are saying I am anti-Semitic, and denying the Holocaust, and all these other things that would never occur to me to do. I thought we were having a discussion about race, which everyone is having.’

Goldberg, who is well known for her provocative and controversial comments, admitted to Colbert she ‘did a lot of harm to myself’ with her Holocaust remarks.

‘People decided I was a certain way. And I’m not,’ she insisted. ‘And I’m torn up people see me that way. I did it to myself. This is my thought process and I will work hard not to think that way again.’ READ MORE

Now The End Begins is your front line defense against the rising tide of darkness in the last Days before the Rapture of the Church
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page When you contribute to this fundraising effort, you are helping us to do what the Lord called us to do. The money you send in goes primarily to the overall daily operations of this site. When people ask for Bibles, we send them out at no charge. When people write in and say how much they would like gospel tracts but cannot afford them, we send them a box at no cost to them for either the tracts or the shipping, no matter where they are in the world. Even all the way to South Africa. We even restarted our weekly radio Bible study on Sunday nights again, thanks to your generous donations. All this is possible because YOU pray for us, YOU support us, and YOU give so we can continue growing. But whatever you do, don’t do nothing. Time is short and we need your help right now. If every one of the 15,860+ people on our daily mailing list gave $4.50, we would reach our goal immediately. If every one of our 150,000+ followers on Facebook gave $1.00 each, we would reach 300% of our goal. The same goes for our 16,400 followers on Twitter. But sadly, many will not give, so we need the ones who can and who will give to be generous. As generous as possible. “Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;” Titus 2:13 (KJV)
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page