When President Joe Biden met with U.S. governors at the White House on Monday, he was the only one given a glass of water — lest anyone else remove their mask to take a drink.

Does anyone else find it curious that pretend president Joe Biden has been double-vaxxed and boosted, yet his entire White House staff lives in daily fear that he will contract COVID-19 anyway? They go to extraordinary lengths every day to shield him and protect him from catching COVID as if he was never vaccinated at all. That alone shows you how little faith the very people promoting the vaccines actually have in those vaccines. Hopefully, you are making a note of that fascinating little gem. Trust the science, baby, trust the science!

“If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.” Proverbs 29:12 (KJB)

One one hand, it is encouraging to see large sections of the world pushing back against these fascist vaccine mandates and against the Immunity Passports, as they should be doing. But on the other hand, I think the vast majority of people are still unaware that the restrictions on their freedoms are not going to be restored in any meaningful way. mRNA is not going away, indeed they are now planning a mandatory yearly jab that will replace the booster shots. But it’s not stopping, it’s not going away, and you can expect to see mRNA showing up everywhere. You see, these are not vaccines, they are gene editing tools, and the goal has never been to ‘vaccinate’ you, it has always been about editing and modifying your DNA. The only question is, to what end? Go read Revelation 13 and see for yourself.

All-out effort to keep double-vaxxed and boosted President Joe Biden COVID-free; no ‘normal’ yet

FROM THE AP: President Joe Biden was seated more than 10 feet from everyone, including Vice President Kamala Harris and members of his Cabinet. A White House staffer who was wearing a surgical mask when Biden entered the room was quickly handed an N95 version.

These are just some of the extraordinary efforts on the part of the White House to keep the president from getting COVID-19, even though he’s gotten both of his regular vaccinations and his booster. It’s no surprise that unusual steps are taken to protect any president. But the strict precautions could also threaten to undercut the Biden administration’s own efforts to tell Americans — especially those who are vaccinated and boosted — that they can get on with something closer to their normal lives in the face of the omicron wave.

And it’s emblematic of the messaging challenges surrounding the administration’s approach to COVID-19 as the virus becomes endemic, familiar and somewhat controlled but still menacing, with hard-to-follow guidelines often unevenly implemented.

For months, Biden aides have fretted that the people who are most protected against COVID-19 remain the most cautious, a dynamic they view as a drag on the nation’s economic and psychological recovery.

In recent weeks, his aides and science advisers have highlighted study after study showing the strong protection offered by the COVID vaccines against the variant and reassuring vaccinated people they can go about their daily lives. At a Jan. 19 press conference, Biden declared: “We have the tools — vaccines, boosters, masks, tests, pills — to save lives and keep businesses and schools open” and rejected the notion that still-widespread restrictions reflect a “’new normal.”

“It will get better,” he promised. READ MORE

President of Bayer Pharmaceuticals Says mRNA Is Gene Editing Technology

President of Bayer’s Pharmaceuticals Sector and member of the board said in his speech: ‘Ultimately the mRNA vaccines are an example for that cell and gene therapy. I always like to say: If we had surveyed two years ago in the public: ‘would you be willing to take a gene or cell therapy and inject it into your body?’ we probably would have had a 95% refusal rate”

Now The End Begins is your front line defense against the rising tide of darkness in the last Days before the Rapture of the Church
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page When you contribute to this fundraising effort, you are helping us to do what the Lord called us to do. The money you send in goes primarily to the overall daily operations of this site. When people ask for Bibles, we send them out at no charge. When people write in and say how much they would like gospel tracts but cannot afford them, we send them a box at no cost to them for either the tracts or the shipping, no matter where they are in the world. Even all the way to South Africa. We even restarted our weekly radio Bible study on Sunday nights again, thanks to your generous donations. All this is possible because YOU pray for us, YOU support us, and YOU give so we can continue growing. But whatever you do, don’t do nothing. Time is short and we need your help right now. If every one of the 15,860+ people on our daily mailing list gave $4.50, we would reach our goal immediately. If every one of our 150,000+ followers on Facebook gave $1.00 each, we would reach 300% of our goal. The same goes for our 16,400 followers on Twitter. But sadly, many will not give, so we need the ones who can and who will give to be generous. As generous as possible. “Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;” Titus 2:13 (KJV)
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page