A triple blast of new evidence just erupted into public view, which the House Select Committee On January 6th has called “extraordinary” and is actively investigating.

New reporting places the former president personally in the middle of a plot to use three federal agencies in an attempt to overturn the last election.

Newly revealed documents include a draft of the Executive Order to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) used in his desperate machinations to seize voting machines in a self-coup attempt.

At the same time, documents from the National Archives arrived at the January 6th Committee torn apart, which is something Donald J. Trump was personally known to do in the Oval Office.

Also, The New York Times is reporting a previously unknown meeting with former Attorney General Bill Barr in mid-November has emerged along with revelations that Trump asked him to seize the voting machines even then. Barr refused the request, only to tell the Associated Press two weeks later that there was no election fraud, which led to his resignation a few weeks later.

We now know that in December 2020, Trump’s advisors drafted a second version of an Executive Order to seize voting machines that were sent to DHS, according to multiple sources speaking with CNN. That is the second self-coup by fiat order in addition to a previously revealed draft document that was sent to the Department of Defense.

Previously, only a single phone call had been reported between Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and the DHS acting deputy secretary Ken Cucinelli, not actual marching orders.

Stunningly, Guiliani, who has since been suspended from the practice of law, became the voice of reason at the fraught moment when a lame-duck president personally considered signing a declaration of his self-coup plan by executive diktat. The New York Times reports:

Indeed, Trump was at that point of attack for the most extreme push to convert the federal government into an autocracy.

The National Archives issued a statement today to CNN pointing them to media reports about “the guys who tape Trump’s papers back together“:

“These were turned over to the National Archives at the end of the Trump Administration, along with a number of torn-up records that had not been reconstructed by the White House,” the Archives said in the statement. “The Presidential Records Act requires that all records created by presidents be turned over to the National Archives at the end of their administrations.”

The plan itself was the idea of disgraced former National Security Advisor Gen. Michael Flynn, ret. (who got a pardon for a felony crime he pled guilty to) and his associate Col. Phil Waldron. Flynn and fired Trump campaign lawyer Sidney Powell brought former Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne to the White House to hold a meeting to propose using the Pentagon to take over the 2020 election.

Interestingly, the above-described trio minus Col. Waldron had to execute an end-run around Trump’s Chief of Staff Mark Meadows by using a little-known aide to White House advisor Peter Navarro named Garrett Ziegler to get their Oval Office meeting with the former president. The Times reports:

Navarro recently published a book bragging about the plan to overturn 2020’s legitimate election, which he called the “Green Bay Sweep.”

A key question the January 6th Select Committee is investigating is whether Trump’s plans and actions with GOP lawmakers in December 2020 before the insurrection mob stormed the Capitol were all part of a single plan to stop certification of President Joe Biden’s electoral victory.

These revelations draw a direct line from activity emanating from the Oval Office and in the personal hands of the former president with direct orders to initiate a self-coup or auto golpe that would abrogate the United States constitution and the will of the people.