That’s it. Donald Trump is crazy or as a friend of mine would say, batshit crazy. Because a bipartisan committee is working on changes to the Electoral Count Act, Trump thinks that means that Pence was stopped from “doing his duty” of overturning the 2020 election. The man is a complete wacko. He issued this statement: “If the Vice President had ‘absolutely no right’ to change the Presidential Election results in the Senate despite fraud and many other irregularities, how come the Democrats and RINO Republicans, like Wacky Susan Collins, are desperately trying to pass legislation that will not allow the Vice President to change the results of the election?” He is so juvenile.

The only “fraud and irregularities” in the 2020 election are in Trump’s tiny brain. He really needs an intervention. In Trump’s mind, Pence committed the ultimate betrayal by not overturning the election results because he “had the right to do so.” George Conway, who never passes up an opportunity to insult Trump, tweeted: “The Twelfth Amendment and the Electoral Count Act of 1887 already make it entirely clear that the Vice President merely opens the envelopes. But sometimes we want to make laws even clearer so that even semiliterate psychopaths have a chance at understanding them.” Conway clearly knows Trump, but Trump did not get that he was implicating himself in the process.

People like Donald Trump think they do no wrong. Surely, he knew he was admitting to his involvement in everything that transpired leading up to January 6. He truly thinks the world revolves around him and that, as a result, he can bend everyone and everything to his will. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger were not happy with Trump’s admission according to the Hill and Newsweek. Newsweek quoted Kinzinger: “This is an admission, and a massively un-American statement. It is time for every Republican leader to pick a side…Trump or the Constitution, there is no middle on defending our nation anymore.” Cheney has said something similar in the past, and they are both right. Choosing Trump goes against everything for which our Constitution stands. Trump cares nothing about our Constitution; all Trump cares about is what he wants, and he has no care for whom he hurts in the process. This type of behavior makes one question why people follow him, let alone believe one thing he says. The only conclusion is that they are also crazy.

The last thing we need is more crazy in our government. Trump must be kept out at all costs. He cannot even understand the laws, let alone uphold them. He continues to break the law because he continues to get away with it. That needs to end now. If we can take Trump out of the equation, perhaps some people might return to their senses. As long as he is out there spreading his crazy lies, however, that is not going to happen. Hopefully, either the New York or Georgia prosecutors will get him, and we can move on from this very dark chapter in history.