Look anywhere but America for medical truths. Obamacare politicized and weaponized the once greatest healthcare system in the world.

Translation from this MSN:article: ‘Telling the truth from Norwegian Public Health to the government. Better to open up now so everyone can get infected as the vaccines given have some effect now against severe/ICU/deaths and not later.

Let it rip, which is easy as the virus is anyway unstoppable. This is clear logic. Vaccine protection against severe infection is decreasing every week rapidly. Those with two doses and not elderly/immunosuppressed will have use from the vaccine-induced B cells response, although less than natural infected, will protect them from severe outcome. Those triple vaccinated and elderly/immunosuppressed will also have some protection. The unvaccinated will have live vaccination from omicron from this unstoppable virus.

To vaccinate now is absolutely wrong. To give a booster dose in an ongoing peak will only give you the worst of worlds. The short term reduced general immunity will let you get infected more easily and also very bad to tackle the infection when your immunity is temporary reduced by the powerful vaccines.

The only solution is open up immediately everything, no masks, no frontier controls and no vaccinations with the now useless Wuhan vaccine.’

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail. Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight. Follow me on Gettr. I am there, click here. It's open and free. Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.