Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

Follow me on Gettr. I am there, click here. It's open and free.

Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight.

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail.

So now we know half of America is still drinking the enemedia kool-aid.

A poll released on Monday revealed 50% of likely voters think President Joe Biden should be impeached, according to Rasmussen Reports.

The question of 1,000 likely voters conducted January 26-27, 2022, asked, “Some Republicans in Congress have endorsed articles of impeachment against President Joe Biden, citing his immigration policy and his failure in Afghanistan, among other reasons. Do you support or oppose impeaching President Biden?”

Those supporting Biden’s impeachment included 74% of Republicans, 34% of Democrats, and 42 percent of Independents.

Among those who supported the president’s impeachment included 33% who strongly support Biden’s removal.

The poll is not the first by the organization to address whether Biden should be impeached. A September 2021 poll found 60% of voters agreed Biden “deserved” to be impeached following America’s military departure from Afghanistan.

“After the botched withdrawal from Afghanistan in August, 60% of voters agreed with South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham that Biden deserved to be impeached. If the GOP wins a majority in the House of Representatives in the November midterms, 45% of voters believe it is likely Republicans will impeach Biden, including 22% who think impeachment is Very Likely. Forty-two percent (42%) don’t think Republicans are likely to impeach Biden, including 10% who say it’s Not At All Likely, while another 12% are not sure,” the firm noted.

In addition to half of those surveyed supporting Biden’s impeachment, the Rasmussen Reports’ daily poll showed just 41% approved of Biden’s leadership as president.

The figure included 47% who strongly disapproved. In contrast, 20% strongly approved of his leadership.

Earlier this month, House GOP Conference Chairwoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY) said that anything is “on the table” if Republicans overtake the House following the November midterm elections, including impeaching Biden. The Daily Wire previously reported:

“Anything is on the table when we are in the majority,” Stefanik said of impeachment, JustTheNews reported. “But what I believe we should focus on is conducting oversight and making sure that we’re passing legislation to secure the border once and for all,” she added. “The policies of the previous administration under President Trump were working.” Stefanik’s remark came in reaction to Texas Senator Ted Cruz (R) opening the door to the possibility of impeaching Biden, noting there are “multiple grounds to consider” on the matter, foremost the chaos at the southern border. “If we take the House, which I said is overwhelmingly likely, then I think we will see serious investigations of the Biden administration,” Cruz said on an episode of “Verdict with Ted Cruz,” according to The Hill. “I do think there’s a chance of that,” the Republican continued, noting that Democrats have already “weaponized impeachment” with former President Donald Trump.