What an ignorant pig. It is a disgrace that ABC would have someone who is so hateful on one of its flagship shows. Frankly, ‘The View’ is a radical, toxic, and dangerous talk show. If ABC was a responsible network they would have cancelled ‘The View’ years ago. Whoopi Goldberg, 66, on Monday sparked uproar when she claimed on The View that the Holocaust was ‘not about race’ because it was white people killing white. These are the pigs the left give a platform….. ‘As a black person I think of race as being something that I can see’: Whoopi Goldberg tries to justify saying that the Holocaust was not about race – after issuing apology claiming she ‘stands corrected’ Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail. Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight. Follow me on Gettr. I am there, click here. It's open and free. Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

‘Sparks Fly’ On ‘The View’ After Whoopi Goldberg Claims The Holocaust Was ‘Not About Race’ Tensions rose on ABC’s “The View” after regular host Whoopi Goldberg claimed during Monday’s broadcast that the Holocaust was “not about race.” Goldberg and her co-hosts — Sara Haines, Joy Behar, Sunny Hostin, and Ana Navarro — were discussing reports that a Tennessee school had pulled the graphic novel “Maus” over concerns about language and nudity, and the conversation turned to the subject of “Maus”: the Holocaust. “A Tennessee school pulled the graphic novel ‘Maus’ out of their lessons on the Holocaust because it contained some nudity and some bad language,” Goldberg began. “Personally, I’m shocked because, you know, given the story of ‘Maus,’ I’m surprised that’s what made you uncomfortable, the fact that there was some nudity. I mean, it’s about the Holocaust. The killing of 6 million people, but that didn’t bother you? But the naked —” “I am not sure they don’t use the naked part as kind of a canard to throw you off from the fact that they don’t like history that makes white people look bad,” Joy Behar added. “Maybe. This is white people doing it to white people. Y’all go fight amongst yourselves,” Goldberg continued. “This was the plan with these anti-history laws that started being passed,” Sunny Hostin argued that banning books like “Maus” and “To Kill a Mockingbird” was the natural next step after attempts to ban Critical Race Theory. “I’ve always said if my children are subjected to racism at a very early age, which they are, then your child should be okay with having a little bit of discomfort and learning about the racism that exists.”

“If we’re going to do this, let’s be truthful about it because the Holocaust isn’t about race. No. It’s not about race,” Goldberg said. “It’s not about race. It’s not about race,” Goldberg insisted. “It’s about man’s inhumanity to man. That’s what it’s about,” Goldberg replied. “But it’s about white supremacy,” Navarro objected. “It’s about going after Jews and gypsies —” “But it’s not about —” Goldberg interrupted. “These are two white groups of people. How do we —” “They came after black people too,” Behar pointed out, noting that the Nazis had not considered Jews to be “white” either.