It seems like only yesterday we were welcoming Cheryl Hole, Divina de Campo and The Vivienne onto our screens for the inaugural season of RuPaul’s Drag Race UK.

Since then we’ve enjoyed two more seasons of iconic UK drag queens and this evening (1 February) sees the kick off of the first ever UK-based spin-off, RuPaul’s Drag Race: UK vs The World on BBC Three and BBC iPlayer.

The series will see nine All Star queens from all over the world compete for the title of Queen of the Mothertucking World. And so, of course, it would only be appropriate to welcome back three UK queens who helped to start it all over here: Blu Hydrangea, Baga Chipz and the aforementioned Cheryl Hole.

PinkNews recently caught up with everyone’s favourite Essex girl ahead of the series premiere – and this time, she’s really stepping up her game.

“In all honesty, my drag on season one was so s**t that anything I wore was a step up, so I was winning!” she laughed.

“I was selfishly quite happy with everybody expecting me to be the bottom of the pack, the runt of the litter, because I knew exactly what I had bought and I was ready to gag everybody,” she continued. “Trust and believe me, the jaws hit the floor!”

In the past, many queens have spoken about feeling cautious about the prospect of returning to where it all began for them for fear of damaging their reputation. This wasn’t the case for Cheryl however, in fact the queen jumped at the chance to take another swing.

“For me, I did not hesitate once when I got that phone call. I just said, ‘Let me know where I need to be and what times.’

“So much changed from us filming in 2019, I had changed my mindset to my drag. In drag terms, I was still a baby [then]. I was only two years into drag when I went on season one. I have grown and evolved so much that I wanted to prove to everybody that there was so much more I could say with my drag and this was the perfect opportunity. I was never going to turn it down.”

Any All Stars-type spin-off show brings a new dynamic that comes with many of the queens returning to the werkroom this time as a celebrity or a legend in their own right. Cheryl Hole told PinkNews how the inflated egos of queens who have enjoyed some degree of fame can change the game.

“I think it’s definitely a factor that plays, that some people will have had some bigger opportunities than others. But once you’re back in the thunder-dome, you’re on an equal playing field.

“What you bring to the table that day is what you bring. And if you’re not bringing it, you’re going to go home. It doesn’t matter how many Instagram followers you have, or how many brand deals you have, you’re bringing your drag to the main stage, so step it up girly!”

When it comes to UK queens with huge Instagram followings, brand deals and global recognition, no UK queen has done it quite like the notorious Bimini Bon-Boulash who came runner-up in the second UK season.

Since competing on the show, Bimini has graced the cover of countless fashion magazines, released a Sunday Times bestselling book and a single, walked in London Fashion Week and toured in venues around the globe.

You might wonder whether the stratospheric heights the East London queen has reached increase the pressure on UK queens but Cheryl Hole explains that, if anything, for her it adds to the excitement of returning to the show.

“Definitely excitement,” she beams. “I don’t feel pressure because not one queen is the same in this industry. We’re all so unique and we do completely different things with our drag.

“Some queens want to be on the cover of magazines and model. I personally am so excited to get back on stages, create productions, create my own one-woman show and show everybody exactly what I want to do with my drag.

“And obviously, if anybody wants to chuck me a magazine cover, I’ll happily take it!”

RuPaul’s Drag Race UK vs The World starts at 9pm Tuesday (1 February) on BBC Three and BBC iPlayer, with new episodes airing every Tuesday.