The eHarmony advert shows a gay couple making toast and spreading it with peanut butter, before eating it and sharing a hug. (YouTube/ Marketing The Rainbow)

One Million Moms has launched a petition against a “brainwashing” and “offensive” advert featuring gay men hugging and eating toast.

One Million Moms is an anti-LGBT+ membership organisation for mums who are “fed up with the filth many segments of our society, especially the entertainment media, are throwing at our children”.

The group, which is a front for the anti-LGBT+ fundamentalist lobbying group American Family Association, has become known for its angry petitions against anything and everything, from wrapping paper, to Creme Eggs, to Clifford the Big Red Dog.

This time, the offending “filth” was gays eating toast.

A new advert for dating site eHarmony Australia’s “Here for Real Love” campaign shows a gay couple making toast, spreading it with peanut butter, before eating it and sharing a hug.

But the mums proclaimed: “The online dating site eHarmony.com is advertising its services with a new gay pride commercial featuring the company’s continued theme, ‘Here for Real Love’.

“It’s the site’s attempt to normalize and glorify the LGBTQ lifestyle by featuring a homosexual couple hugging, feeding each other, and wiping the other one’s mouth.

“By promoting same sex relationships, eHarmony wants to make it clear where they stand on this controversial topic instead of remaining neutral in the culture war.”

One Million Moms said it was “concerned” about the ad “pushing the LGBTQ agenda”, especially at a time when “children are likely watching television”.

The petition has been signed by far less that a million people, with just under 8,000 signatures at the time of writing, and asks signatories to declare: “I’m not buying into your social agenda to push the gay agenda. Your latest ad offends me and many other conservative families.

“I do not agree with the LGBTQ+ agenda you are forcing on families and children in your commercial featuring two gay men. Please stick to promoting your website, not political and social statements.”