Trailblazing rapper Da Brat is expecting her first child with fiancée Jesseca Dupart. (Instagram/@darealbbjudy/@sosobrat)

Da Brat has announced that she is welcoming her first child with fiancée Jesseca “Judy” Dupart in a heartwarming post on Instagram.

The adorable couple posted adorable snaps of Da Brat snuggled up behind Dupart, who is the CEO and co-owner of Kaleidoscope Hair Products, with her arms wrapped around her soon-to-be-spouse.

Da Brat and Dupart smile lovingly at the camera while holding up a heart in front of Dupart’s midsection.

“We are EXTENDING the family,” they captioned the joint Instagram post.

According to People, this will be Da Brat’s first child, and Dupart has three children from previous relationships.

Needless to say, fans were over the moon at the joyous news.

Retired WNBA star Ty Young sent her heartfelt congratulations to the mums-to-be, and writer Pauleanna Reid added that she is super “happy for you both”.

Hip-hop legend Missy Elliot also sent congratulations to the loving couple, adding several celebratory emojis and a baby bottle emoji to her post.

The wonderful announcement comes just weeks before Da Brat and Dupart are set to celebrate their wedding.

The couple announced on the Instagram account for their WE TV series Brat Loves Judy that they would be getting married on 22 February, sharing a photo after Da Brat got a tattoo of the special date on her back.

“Counting down the days!” they said in the caption.

Da Brat confirmed she had a girlfriend back in 2020 after Dupart bought the US rapper a $200,000 Bentley for her birthday.

The rapper wrote in a heartfelt post on social media that she had always been a “kind of private person” until she met Dupart, who she described as her heart’s match who handles some things differently than I do”.

The couple got engaged last year and confirmed the news on an episode of Brat Loves Judy. In a clip from the show, Dupart surprised Da Brat with an engagement ring during a Coming To America themed surprise party.

The rapper revealed that she was “so shocked” that it was difficult for her to say “yes” at first, but she, of course, did.

“The answer is ‘yes, baby, hell yeah, yeah’,” Da Brat said. “It’s been ‘yes’ since damn near the day I met her. If she would’ve asked me then, I would’ve f*****g said ‘yeah’.”