Citi Zēni is in the running to represent Latvia at the 2022 Eurovision Song Contest. (Instagram/ Citi Zēni)

A song about “eating veggies and p***y” which could “single handedly save the world from climate change” is in the running to become Latvia’s entry for Eurovision 2022.

“Eat Your Salad” by Citi Zēni is one of 16 songs included in Latvia’s Supernova, a national selection show broadcast on Saturday (5 February) to decide who will represent the country at the 2022 Eurovision Song Contest in Turin, Italy.

According to Eurovision: “Citi Zēni roughly translates as ‘Other Boys’ and those other boys describe themselves as a ‘six-piece musical act from Eastern Europe, trading in alternative unicorn pop’.

“The song is called ‘Eat Your Salad’… which isn’t the only thing on the menu.”

“Eat Your Salad” begins which was has been described as “the most astonishing opening lyric ever heard from a Euro hopeful”.

“Instead of meat I eat veggies and p***y,” Citi Zēni sings. “I like them both fresh, like them both juicy.”

The song revolves around sustainability and fighting climate change, with lyrics like: “Bend over, then jiggle that peach / You’re recycling while I’m loving those cheeks.”

The internet agrees with Citi Zēni that “being green” is both “hot” and “cool”, with one Twitter user declaring: “If Latvia don’t send this to Eurovision I’m not watching.”

“Eurovision is ruined if Latvia doesn’t send ‘Eat Your Salad'”, said another.

Others insisted that selecting “Eat Your Salad” was not only vital for Latvia’s success at Eurovision, but also for the fate of the planet.

“Latvia single-handedly saving the world from climate change if they choose ‘Eat Your Salad’ for their Eurovision song,” they tweeted.

Latvia will compete in the first Eurovision semi-final on 10 May, 2022, with the grand final taking place on 14 May.

The theme has been announced as “a visual representation of the sound of beauty”, and if “Eat Your Salad” doesn’t fit, then we don’t know what does.