Lindsey Graham, meet Lindsey Graham. More precisely, Lindsey Graham 2.0, meet Lindsey Graham 1.0. (Whom we thought was your former self.) While Lindsey 1.0 behaved more like a Democrat than a Republican, Lindsey 2.0 was an ardent supporter of Donald Trump. On Sunday, 2.0 relapsed. Bigly.

During an appearance on “Face the Nation,” 1.0 fired twin blasts across the Republican bow, both of which no doubt pleased a Democrat Party that has had pretty much zero to celebrate for more than a year.

Graham not only broke with Trump over the latter’s recent suggestion that he would pardon Jan. 6 Capitol rioters if he runs for president in 2024 (all but a done deal) and wins (I’m not convinced that would be a done deal), but Graham also enthusiastically signaled support for US District Judge J. Michelle Childs, reported to be on Biden’s shortlist of potential Supreme Court nominees to replace Justice Stephen Breyer at the end of the court’s current term.

During Donald’s Trumpapalooza in Texas on Saturday, he said he will pardon “those people,” in reference to Jan. 6, if “required” to do so.

The Department of Justice has charged more than 700 people in connection with the attack on the Capitol, prompting Trump on Saturday to add: “It’s a disgrace. It’s a disgrace.”

On Sunday, Lindsey 1.0 could not have disagreed with Trump’s comments more vociferously.

As if that blast wasn’t enough, Graham could not have been more effusive in his support of his fellow South Carolinian Michelle Childs as a potential Biden SCOTUS nominee.

I can’t think of a better person for President Biden to consider for the Supreme Court than Michelle Childs. She has wide support in our state. She’s considered to be a fairminded, highly-gifted jurist, [and] she’s one of the most decent people I’ve ever met. It would be good for the court to have somebody who’s not at Harvard or Yale; she’s a graduate of the University of South Carolina, with a public education background. She’s been a ‘workers’ comp’ judge. She’s highly qualified. She’s of good character, and we’ll see how she does if she’s nominated, but I cannot say anything bad about Michelle Childs…

“There is no affirmative action component if you pick her,” Graham said. Put me in the camp of making sure the court and other institutions look like America.”

While I’m not qualified to judge the qualifications of Ms. Childs — or any other potential nominee — to sit on the highest court in the land, I do have a problem with identity politics on steroids, which is where today’s Democrat Party lives. As characterized by The Hill on Saturday, Biden’s announcement that he would, first and foremost, nominate a black woman essentializes race and gender over qualifications — be it Michelle Childs or anyone else, regardless of the color of a potential nominee’s gender or skin color.

Former Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii) came ever stronger. Two operative words: Kamala Harris.

Gabbard was right — irrespective of skin color.

And what do the American people think about Biden’s identity politics?

As we reported Sunday, according to a new ABC News/Ipsos poll, 76 percent of respondents want Biden to consider all possible nominees while just 23 percent want him to specifically choose a black woman — or any other person based solely on race and gender.

Obviously, 76 percent of respondents were focused on the — ahem — wrong criteria.