Whoopi Goldberg went on Stephen Colbert’s show on Monday night to apologize and try to dig herself out of the hole that she put herself in when she claimed on “The View” earlier in the day that the Holocaust wasn’t about race.

Here’s what she said.

“Well, this is white people doing it to white people,” Whoopi said. “So, this is y’all go fight amongst yourselves.”

But Whoopi should have just apologized and stopped talking.

Instead, she went on Colbert, apologized, and then dug herself a bigger hole trying to explain what she was thinking.

‘When you talk about being a racist, you can’t call this racism,’ she said. ‘This was evil. This wasn’t based on skin. You couldn’t tell who was Jewish. You had to delve deeply and figure it out. My point is: they had to do the work. ‘If the Klan is coming down the street and I’m standing with a Jewish friend, I’m going to run, but if my friend decides not to run, they’ll get passed by most times because you can’t tell who is Jewish. You don’t know.’

That’s a basic failure to understand what the Holocaust was primarily about — an effort to destroy the Jewish people. It wasn’t just about people being evil, it was about genocide. It’s why in each of the countries they invaded, one of their priorities was to find Jews and ship them to the gas chambers. Whoopi says, “They had to do the work”? Yikes.

She’s also skipping out on other aspects of the Holocaust — that there was also an effort to do in the Sinti and Roma people (“gypsies”) as well, as Ana Navarro pointed out, who they also viewed as a “racially inferior” or “impure.” They also killed the mentally ill/disabled and went after gay people because they were viewed as a problem for the “Aryan race.” So yes, there was a racial component in all of that to the Nazis.

She’s also dismissing any concern for that Jewish person in the Klan situation because “You can’t tell who is Jewish.” Again, that’s putting people into a visual identity box. Liberals are constantly pushing identity politics. But then they even want to craft those boxes as they see them. Sticking Jewish people in the “white identity box” then allows people to dismiss or diminish anti-Semitism.

She continues to say it isn’t about race, but don’t write to her, because she gets what people are saying and won’t say anything about it again.

In other words, she’s not changing what she thinks, she’s just not going to mention it again. But while the media will go after Joe Rogan for “misinformation” and try to cancel him, people will yell about Whoopi for a few days. But there will be no real liberal call to boot Whoopi because she’s a liberal.