The left celebrated when musician Neil Young announced he would be removing his music from Spotify for hosting comedian Joe Rogan’s podcast. This particular ploy was the latest in an ongoing effort to cancel the podcaster for having conversations with people who express ideas the woke crowd doesn’t like.

Joni Mitchell, along with other geriatric musicians, followed suit. “Holy crap! Neil Young AND Joni Mitchell? Rogan is toast,” progressives seemed to think.

But, as usual, they were wrong.

Not only has Spotify stood firm in their decision to host Rogan’s podcast, he has also received overwhelming support, some of which is coming from unexpected sources.

Former Democratic presidential candidate Marianne Williams tweeted in support of the comedian:

Actor Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson also expressed support for Rogan after the podcaster issued a statement in a video posted on Instagram. Johnson posted: “Great stuff here brother. Perfectly articulated. Look forward to coming on one day and breaking out the tequila with you.”

Former Democratic presidential candidate Tulsi Gabbard also chimed in, suggesting the left is using Rogan’s interviews with controversial figures with differing opinions on COVID-19 as an excuse to silence him for not being woke enough. She tweeted:

Even Politico published an op-ed blasting those attempting to censor Rogan. Author Jack Shafer wrote:

You don’t have to be a fan of Rogan’s 12-year-old show (I’m not) or a Fox viewer (I mainly watch out of professional duty) to view the calls for boycott or de-platforming as attempts to suppress controversy and dissent in favor of samethink. By trying to mute Rogan, Young and his ilk seem to be saying that some ideas — even the stupid ones about vaccines and Covid that Rogan has endorsed — are so powerful that they will displace “good” public health ideas and that Rogan is guilty of inspiring Covid deaths.

Every single attempt to cancel Joe Rogan has crashed and burned. In fact, by going so hard to silence the comedian, they have only made him more popular – powerful. They must see this by now, but they just can’t help themselves.

But the bottom line is that the reason the left seeks to censor Rogan is not that they are concerned people will be misinformed in a way that impacts their health. If this were the case, they would simply refute the arguments put forth on his show. They would publish reports and op-eds proving them wrong. Instead of defeating the ideas, they seek to shut them down completely.

Perhaps it is because no matter how much they dismiss these views, they seem to have too much truth to them. In other words, they prefer to cancel Rogan because they cannot compete with the arguments expressed on his show. This isn’t only true of COVID-related conversations – it includes any discussion that goes against the tenets of wokeism. Unfortunately for them, Rogan is here to stay.