Question– Why was mortality in Scotland higher in 2021 than 2020?

Answer– Because more people were dying. And the reason more people were dying is because more people had been vaccinated. In other words, there’s a link between rising mortality and the Covid-19 vaccine.

Answer– You’re right, I can’t. The evidence is all circumstantial. But it is compelling, all the same. For example, rising mortality hasn’t just happened in Scotland. It’s happened in many of the countries that launched mass vaccination campaigns in early 2021. They’ve all seen a significant uptick in all-cause mortality. Why is that? What did they do differently in 2021 than they did in the years before?

Question– I can see what you’re getting at, but I still don’t think you have enough evidence to make your case.

Answer– Okay, then you tell me: Why did more people die in 2021 than 2020? And, keep in mind, all-cause mortality isn’t just up a bit; it smashed the five-year average. Check out this post from Alex Berenson at Substack:

Question– But how can you build a case on data from just one country? It’s ridiculous.

Answer– But it’s not just Scotland. The same rule applies to many of the countries that launched vaccination campaigns in early 2021. Here’s more from Berenson:

And then there’s this is from Data Analyst’s Twitter account (check out the charts):

 Data Analysis @Data_is_Louder

​Denmark ––“5 months is a row 2021 has broken the 10-year record of people dying from all causes…..Covid-19 deaths close to zero during the same period.”

The same is true in Ireland, UK and Israel. Take a look at England (Ages 10 to 59 years old.)

That’s something you’re not going to read in the media, and for good reason, too. Because it would undermine their lethal objective to continue hyping the vaccine.

The examples are everywhere across the Internet. You don’t have to look very far. Wherever mass vaccinations took place, there, too, morality has risen. And–once again–these are not Covid deaths. These are mainly heart attacks, strokes, blood clots, circulatory diseases and neurological issues; the same vaccine-induced ailments we were warned about by the physicians and scientists who’ve been telling us the truth from the start. Turns out they were right after all.

Simply put, the vaccines are increasing fatalities, not reducing them. They are making matters worse not better. They are perpetuating the crisis not ending it. And that is why the red line in the chart is pointing upward. It’s an indication that the death toll will continue to rise as long as we continue to do what we are doing now, inoculating millions of people with a cytotoxic pathogen that triggers blood clots, inflammation and autoimmunity. Here’s another chart of Scotland with a short comment from The Daily Skeptic:

Have you noticed how the media is trying to cover-up the sudden surge in mortality? Here’s a good example from an article at the UK Telegraph:

“While focus remains firmly fixed on Covid-19, a second health crisis is quietly emerging in Britain. Since the beginning of July, there have been thousands of excess deaths that were not caused by coronavirus. According to health experts, this is highly unusual for the summer. Although excess deaths are expected during the winter months, when cold weather and seasonal infections combine to place pressure on the NHS, summer generally sees a lull. According to the Office for National Statistics (ONS), since July 2 there have been 9,619 excess deaths in England and Wales, of which 48 per cent (4,635) were not caused by Covid-19. So if all these extra people are not dying from coronavirus, what is killing them? Data from Public Health England (PHE) shows that during that period there were 2,103 extra death registrations with ischemic heart disease, 1,552 with heart failure, as well as an extra 760 deaths with cerebrovascular diseases such as stroke and aneurysm and 3,915 with other circulatory diseases.” (“Thousands more people than usual are dying … but it’s not from Covid“, Telegraph)

So, according to the article, there were:

All of these cerebrovascular, cardiac and circulatory ailments didn’t suddenly drop from the sky in 2021. They are vaccine-generated injuries. Can you see that?

And they are all linked to the spike protein which is the “biological mechanism of action” that “damages blood vessels, organs, and causes blood clots, and that can kill a human being?” (Quote: Dr Peter McCullough)

Have you wondered why more people died this year of Covid than in all of 2020? According to Johns Hopkins, Covid killed 353, 000 people in the United States in 2020. But in just 10 months in 2021, 390,000 people have died. How can that be? After all:
• Many of the extremely vulnerable have already died
• The experts say Delta is not as lethal as the original Wuhan infection
• 100 million people (according to the CDC) have already survived Covid and now have natural immunity
• And 190 million people have been double-vaxxed

These are four reasons why deaths should be decreasing. But they’re not decreasing, they’re increasing.

And why are the countries with the highest Covid-19 death rates, also the most vaccinated countries?

It’s because “there is a massive positive correlation between vaccination percentage and deaths.”

But don’t take my word for it. Check it out for yourself. Do your own research.

Recently, Professor Norman Fenton at Queen Mary London University sifted through the government’s statistics (ONS) to see if he could “determine the overall risk-benefit of Covid-19 vaccines” by comparing “the all-cause mortality rates between the vaccinated and unvaccinated in each age category.”

His thinking on the matter was simple:

Simple, right? In other words, if the vaccine is so great, then it should be clear from the data. But that’s not what Fenton found. What he found was the opposite. He found that all-cause mortality is higher among vaccinated people than the unvaccinated. (And depending how you interpret the data, it could be significantly higher.) Fenton hoped that his analysis would impact the debate on the ongoing vaccination program, but instead, he’s been viciously denounced as a right-wing extremist, which is what happens to anyone who dares to to challenge the official narrative. Here’s more from NPR:

Repeat: “abdominal pain, respiratory problems, blood clots, heart conditions.” In other words, the overcrowding in Emergency Rooms could as easily be linked to vaccine-induced injuries as they could to “delayed treatments”. And notice how the author seems genuinely concerned about the burgeoning ERs but never once mentions the elephant in the room; the vaccine. Was that just a slip-up on his part or was his real intention to bamboozle his readers from the start?

… Read the rest at The Expose.