At the end of last month, Game of Thrones actor Peter Dinklage went on a woke rant where he accused filmmakers and popular culture of disrespecting the dwarfism community by still including dwarfs in films like the upcoming Disney remake of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. However, the rant had the consequences of Disney caving and completely eliminating the dwarfs from the remake, robbing actors with dwarfism of jobs and career-building opportunities.

Now, the dwarfism community is publicly handing it to Dinklage.

Dinklage’s rant took aim at the new Disney remake for being “progressive” by casting a Latin actress to play Snow White but then stopped short when it came to the dwarfs, which he said were treated insultingly as they were portrayed as goofy creatures who lived in a cave.

“Take a step back and look at what you’re doing there. It makes no sense to me,” said Dinklage on fellow actor Marc Maron’s podcast. “You’re progressive in one way, but then you’re still making that f – – king backward story about seven dwarfs living in a cave together. What the f – – k are you doing, man? Have I done nothing to advance the cause from my soapbox? I guess I’m not loud enough.”

After Disney announced it would replace the dwarfs with “mythical creatures,” people began lashing out at Dinklage for his thoughtlessness, and the loudest voices are now coming from the dwarfism community.

Taking to the Daily Mail, WWE wrestler Dylan Postl lashed out at Dinklage for getting some good PR, and while America moves on to the next piece of political outrage, he and others in the dwarfism community have potential jobs:

Dinklage said he has a problem with the way Snow White — a classic, cherished fairy tale — portrays dwarfs. Well, I don’t have a problem with Snow White. What I do have a problem with is Dinklage putting himself on a pedestal and looking down on jobs that countless dwarfs in the entertainment industry would love to fill. Seven little people will now be out of a job. Honestly, who died and made Peter Dinklage King of the Dwarfs? It pisses me off.

Postl lashed out at cancel culture, which he said forces corporations to cave to the whims of the few without considering the feelings and needs of everyone else. He also defended the story, noting that the dwarfs didn’t live in a cave, but a cottage and were incredibly rich as they were jewel miners. To boot, the dwarfs were not interchangeable creatures but individuals with their own distinctive personalities.

He asked who it was that Disney was talking to exactly, because it didn’t seem to be talking to people from the dwarfism community or representative organizations.

“Did they call the Little People of America Association? Did they speak to average height people? I know that they didn’t call me,” said Postl.

Postl said there’s nothing wrong with taking an acting job made specifically for little people, but Dinklage and Disney seem to be pushing that out in a move of sheer thoughtlessness.

“It’s not demeaning or degrading to take a role that is specifically made for a little person. But that’s exactly what Dinklage and Disney want to get rid of,” wrote Postl.

He’s not the only one speaking out either. The Daily Mail reported that Choon Tan and Zita Ferry from the UK are both actors who have previously starred as Dwarfs in Snow White Productions and felt the experience was “inclusive and magical,” and that Dinklage’s rant only served to limit opportunities in the dwarfism community after he himself was able to become rich and famous for doing exactly what he’s bashing now.

Choon cautioned that going down this path will make people think that actors with dwarfism being cast to these positions is wrong and rob many jobs from the dwarfism community:

There won’t be as much opportunity for actors like me to get by over the Christmas periods. ‘And I think it will have a knock on effect because other people might think it might be derogatory to have a dwarf in a certain role. ‘I’ve had people that have hired me for entertainment and stuff and they have that concern as well, where they’re like ‘Oh, we weren’t sure if we were going to book you’. ‘But don’t feel bad about it because I don’t feel bad as long as you’re being respectful. I’m here, I’m getting paid and this is supporting me in my life.

Zita noted that Dinklage made his career off of playing dwarf characters:

Dinklage’s hypocrisy is on full display but now so is his folly. Perhaps Dinklage thought he was trying to bring more respect to the dwarfism community but all he ended up doing was hurting actors within it. He deserves to be called out and slammed for this, but the fault also lies with corporations like Disney who continuously cave the moment anyone so much as hints that woke culture won’t take kindly to something.

Their virtue signaling is hurting people. Disney should walk back their idea for a rework of the story and cast actors from the dwarfism community, and Dinklage should make an apology for being so thoughtless.