Justin Trudeau is still in hiding, scared for his life because the Canadian people have had enough of his tyrannical mandates. This comes after he isolated for being “exposed” to COVID, without testing positive, news surfaces that in fact the triple-vaxxed Prime Minister has actually fallen in with COVID. This could all just be an excuse for him to remain in hiding or some kind of ploy for sympathy, but regardless, it sends a clear message that these vaccines, which he has jammed into the arms of Canadian citizens by force, don’t do anything to stop the spread of COVID.

While many of us realize that nature of the scamdemic, and realize the true threat is from the vaccines and government tyranny, there are still people out there who are afraid of catching Delta, Omicron, or whatever the hell else they make up to scare us, and people need to realize that big pharma is not offering our salvation. The only way to truly end the pandemic is to stop the government from trampling our rights. Don’t get tested, don’t get the vaccine, and don’t listen to corrupt, child-raping politicians!

The “Freedom Convoy” appears to largely be a movement made up of honest and decent people who primarily care about the freedom of bodily autonomy, though they might be getting led into some kind of trap where they will be blamed for mass shortages and other problems. It is highly suspicious that one of the organizers, who is in control of their GoFundMe page and is not even a trucker, is a jew by the name of Benjamin Dichter.

Most of the Freedom Convoy supporters likely do not know this information, or really grasp why it is relevant.

As happens with any large anti-government protest, a few people (likely paid operatives) went out in Canada with Confederate flags and swastikas, and this is being used as a way to demonize the entire movement, even though the swastikas were likely being used to erroneously label Trudeau a “Nazi.” Let me be clear, though, I sure as hell wish the majority of these truckers cared about the survival of the White race and confronting jewish power, but I am pretty confident that a guy with a brand-new, still-wrinkled Confederate flag is not actually out there hoping for the South to rise again… in Canada.

Due to these few images being shown in the media, Trudeau has come out swinging on Twitter against the racist haters.

“I know this pandemic is frustrating. It’s frustrating that, after two years, we’re not done fighting COVID-19. But over the past few days, Canadians have been shocked – and, frankly, disgusted – by the behaviour displayed by some people protesting in our nation’s capital,” Trudeau said.

“I want to be very clear: We’re not intimidated by those who hurl abuse at small business workers and steal food from the homeless. We won’t give in to those who fly racist flags. And we won’t cave to those who engage in vandalism, or dishonour the memory of our veterans,” he continued.

“There is no place in Canada for this behaviour. So, to those responsible: It needs to stop. And to those who joined the convoy but are uncomfortable with the symbols of hatred and division on display: Be courageous and speak out. Do not stand for, or with, intolerance and hate.”

He wants the truckers to fight with each other about who is a hater or not, so that they don’t continue to focus their anger on him and his government.

Trudeau also gave a speech on Monday to address these people honking in the country’s capitol, again accusing his opposition of being violent haters.

I highly doubt this is going to sway anyone in his favor. Trudeau has become one of the most hated figures on the world stage and this will likely just harden the opposition to him. People are realizing he is the one who has been spewing lies and divisive hatred for the common man, not vice versa.

While he condemns this recent movement for real justice, Trudeau was wholeheartedly behind the anti-White terrorism that swept across the Western world, and even knelt in solidarity with the terrorists.

Let’s be honest. Trudeau is nothing more than a political puppet of powerful jewish overlords, doing his part to further White genocide and bring down Canada for “The Great Reset.”