In Part One & Part Two of this article I laid out how those in power have used the power of propaganda and the psychology of fear to weaponize a flu to further their Great Reset agenda, while ensuring an economic and financial collapse through the issuance of trillions in unpayable bad debt. In Part Three of this article, I will examine how the civic decay in our society, created by the ruling class, will coalesce into a bloody firestorm of death and destruction during the remaining years of this Fourth Turning.

“One does not establish a dictatorship in order to safeguard a revolution; one makes the revolution in order to establish the dictatorship.” ― George Orwell, 1984

“The masses never revolt of their own accord, and they never revolt merely because they are oppressed. Indeed, so long as they are not permitted to have standards of comparison, they never even become aware that they are oppressed.” ― George Orwell, 1984

There had been a theory discussed a few years ago regarding the nature of Fourth Turnings alternating between externally focused and internally focused. It is more about the key drivers, as all Fourth Turnings are impacted by domestic and foreign influences. Even though the sample size is small, this Fourth Turning appears to be following the alternating pattern. The American Revolution was driven by conflict with a foreign power (Great Britain), with another foreign power (France) tipping the scales in favor of the patriots. The Civil War was almost entirely a domestic internal conflict, with Great Britain not fully supporting the Confederacy, and tipping the scales in favor of the North. The Great Depression was created by global central bank machinations, with World War II almost entirely fought on foreign soil, leaving the U.S. as the unchallenged leader of the free world after 1945.

It is evident to me this Fourth Turning is being propelled domestically, as the unbridgeable rifts between political parties, states, cities, races, and genders are being stoked and amplified by globalist billionaire elitists. The accelerating level off civic decay and our rapid descent into chaotic conflict has not occurred spontaneously but has been engineered as a crucial element in the Great Reset scheme to “reimagine” and “reset” the world.

Klaus Schwab, the front man for the Davos elite, and sociopath of the first order, sees the deaths of millions from a purposely weaponized virus as a “window of opportunity”. When he refers to “our world” he isn’t including you in his world. You will own nothing and be happy. Him and his billionaire death cult will own everything and keep you enslaved in debt, under technological surveillance, with the threat of violent retribution if you do not bend the knee.

Anyone who has observed the level of violence, murder, lawlessness, and mayhem sweeping the country over the last two years who thinks our country isn’t descending into a chaotic hellscape, are either willfully ignorant or benefiting financially from the orchestrated turmoil. The BLM looting, rioting, burning and murdering escapade, which went on for over a year, and strangely subsided once Trump was disposed of, was not a kinetic reaction to the death of a black drug addled felon being restrained by a white cop, but a well-funded orchestration designed to create havoc in cities across the nation, as part of the plan to destabilize our society.

These staged “protests” were funded by Soros and his ilk to accomplish multiple goals: eliminating Trump; destroying small businesses; weaponizing uneducated blacks; crippling law and order by scapegoating police; and generating outrage by law abiding white people across the country.

You know BLM is nothing but a front organization for Soros, because they have no interest in protesting or stopping the mass slaughter of black teens in the urban ghettos of Philly, Chicago and all the other Democrat run hell holes across the land. Race baiters on MSNBC like Sharpton & Joy Reid are nothing but grifters stoking the flames of a fake racism narrative to please the Soros crowd.

It is an unequivocal fact George Soros and his cohorts have funded the election of district attorneys, mayors, governors, and congress people with massive influxes of money, guaranteed to put into place Marxist Manchurian candidates who will do the bidding of Soros and the Great Reset World Economic Forum elite.

There is no other logical explanation for why Soros would spend tens of millions to get DAs elected in Chicago, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and numerous other Democrat controlled cities, who have absolutely no interest in prosecuting violent felons or even keeping them confined. The result has been a massive surge in murder, violent assaults, car jackings, robberies, and wholesale death and destruction. The blood is on Soros’ hands.

Marxist Governors and mayors like Newsom, Whitmer, DeBlasio, and Lightfoot, along with these Marxist DAs, have been put in place to conduct a controlled demolition of our civilized society in order to build back better under the principles of totalitarianism, under the control of billionaire globalist psychopaths hell-bent on owning everything and keeping a boot on the face of everyone else.

The co-conspirators in the media, fully underwritten by Soros and his accomplices, have undertaken to promote fake racist attacks by Nigerian MAGA terrorists and NASCAR noose wielding white supremacists, while completely ignoring the slaughter by vehicle of 6 white Christmas parade participants and injuring of 62 by a provably racist black felon, let out of jail by a Soros DA. The narrative to maximize the chances of a race war is the goal of Soros and his media mouthpieces.

How can anyone with critical thinking skills possibly believe what Biden and his handlers are orchestrating on our southern border isn’t designed to further tear our country down, making a mockery of the legal immigration process and a fair and honest election system? In the year he has been in office Biden has willfully allowed two million illegal immigrants (mostly young men) from countries all over the world to pour over our southern border with no effort to stem the flow. This is clearly a well-planned, Soros funded initiative to illegally remake the demographics of the country to maximize Democrat control in key swing states and solidify their hold on urban enclaves.

Your government is using your tax dollars to secretly shuttle these illegals on airplanes in the middle of the night to small airports in communities all across the country and then letting them disperse into the general population. They are landing in Westchester NY, Allentown PA, and dozens of other small cities. Others are given bus tickets and told to go anywhere they choose. Meanwhile, NYC, to be followed by many other Democrat run municipalities, are passing laws to allow illegals to vote in elections. This blatant abuse of power goes unchecked.

Any semblance of a civilized society based on agreed upon community standards, human rights, minimal but rational laws, inhabited by morally endowed citizenry, and led by ethical fair-minded leaders, has been systematically and methodically destroyed by a ruling oligarchy driven to maximize their own control, wealth, and power. They see you as nothing more than cattle to be milked, controlled, herded, and slaughtered for profit when they decide. Freedom, liberty, and self-responsibility are outmoded concepts in a world run by billionaire oligarchs. Do you get it yet?