Schools across the country are participating in this week’s national “Black Lives Matter at School Week of Action.” It’s an activist-driven curriculum from the group where children as young as kindergarten are learning things such as “everybody gets to choose their own gender.”

Additional lessons will include disrupting “Western nuclear family dynamics.” The week kicked off Monday and encompasses 13 “Black Lives Matter Guiding Principles” but designed for elementary and middle-school kids.

National Review reports the “principles include a commitment to restorative justice, being transgender affirming and queer affirming, creating space for black families that is ‘free from patriarchal practices,’ and ‘the disruption of Western nuclear family dynamics and a return to the ‘collective village’ that takes care of each other.”

The Black Lives Matter at School website has a “Starter kit” which explains that In addition to 13 principle are four demands: end zero-tolerance discipline policies; mandate black history and ethnic studies; hire more black teachers; and fund counselors, not cops.

One of the participating schools is Centennial Elementary in Denver, Colorado where the lessons will be taught to kindergarteners and first-graders. The school previously made headlines in December after they announced plans for a racially segregated “families of color playground night.”

Included in the starter kit to be used for lessons are writings by Lelana Garcia, author of a children’s book about BLM principles. Some of her teachings are:

When “discussing big ideas with little people” it is necessary to “consider age-appropriate language so that our students or children can grasp the concepts.” For example, she suggests not talking about police violence with “our youngest children.”

When discussing BLM’s principle of being transgender affirming, Garcia offers the following kid-friendly language: “Everybody has the right to choose their own gender by listening to their own heart and mind. Everyone gets to choose if they are a girl or a boy or both or neither or something else, and no one else gets to choose for them.”

When discussing the BLM principle of a “Black Village,” which includes the goal of disrupting the Western nuclear family structure, Garcia suggests teaching kids that “there are lots of different kinds of families; what makes a family is that it’s people who take care of each other; those people might be related, or maybe they choose to be a family together and to take care of each other. Sometimes, when it’s a lot of families together, it can be called a village.”