FBI Director Christopher Wray spoke at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library Monday night where he alerted “the threat to the West from the Chinese government is ‘more brazen’ and damaging than ever before” reports the Associated Press.

In an appearance on Fox News Monday, Sara Carter spoke about China’s distribution of the deadly drug fentanyl that is making its way into the United States through drug cartels at our southern border. Wray’s message was about China as one of our biggest threats to long-term economic security.

“When we tally up what we see in our investigations, over 2,000 of which are focused on the Chinese government trying to steal our information or technology, there’s just no country that presents a broader threat to our ideas, innovation, and economic security than China,” Wray said, according to a copy of the speech provided by the FBI to the AP.

Chinese government hackers are so prevalent and skilled, hey are obtaining more personal and corporate data than all other countries combined. The FBI has to open new cases to counter Chinese intelligence operations every 12 hours or so, Wray said.

“The harm from the Chinese government’s economic espionage isn’t just that its companies pull ahead based on illegally gotten technology. While they pull ahead, they push our companies and workers behind,” Wray said. “That harm — company failures, job losses — has been building for a decade to the crush we feel today. It’s harm felt across the country, by workers in a whole range of industries.”

The AP reports that Chinese government officials have repeatedly rejected accusations from the U.S. government, with the spokesman for the embassy in Washington saying Americans have “made groundless attacks” and malicious smears about Chinese cyberattacks.

Wray added, “I’ve spoken a lot about this threat since I became director” in 2017. “But I want to focus on it here tonight because it’s reached a new level — more brazen, more damaging, than ever before, and it’s vital — vital — that all of us focus on that threat together.”

The AP notes “the Justice Department in 2014 indicted five Chinese military officers on charges of hacking into major American corporations. One year later, the U.S. and China announced a deal at the White House to not steal each other’s intellectual property or trade secrets for commercial gain.” Similar to Iran, China’s words mean absolutely nothing.