Moderna’s COVID-19 mRNA “vaccine”, which is actually a gene therapy shot, now has full approval from the Food and Drug Administration, Or does it? Is it just another gray area like the FDA’s “approval” of Pfizer’s “vaccine?”

On August 23, 2021, FDA announced the first approval of a COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccine has been known as the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, and will now be marketed as Comirnaty. Meaning, only “vaccines” labeled Comirnaty are “fully approved,” and everything else is still being used under EUA (emergency use authorization.)

According to a report by CNN, Moderna’s shot will now be called “Spikevax.”

“This is a momentous milestone in Moderna’s history as it is our first product to achieve licensure in the U.S.,” Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said in the release. “The full licensure of Spikevax in the U.S. now joins that in Canada, Japan, the European Union, the UK, Israel, and other countries, where the adolescent indication is also approved. We are grateful to the U.S. FDA for their thorough review of our application. We are humbled by the role that Spikevax is playing to help end this pandemic.”

Moderna Already Has An Omicron Booster Coming

“The public can be assured that Spikevax meets the FDA’s high standards for safety, effectiveness, and manufacturing quality required of any vaccine approved for use in the United States,” Woodcock said in a statement. “While hundreds of millions of doses of Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine have been administered to individuals under emergency use authorization, we understand that for some individuals, FDA approval of this vaccine may instill additional confidence in making the decision to get vaccinated.”

Comparison of Official Government Reports Suggest Fully Vaccinated Are Developing Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome

Perpetual COVID Vaccinations: Mayo Clinic Thinks Jabs Will Be Necessary For At Least A Century

In case you have been wondering why the rulers are keeping the state of emergency in effect over the COVID-19 scamdemic, CNN lays it out for you:

Emergency use authorization is what its name suggests — a medical product, such as a vaccine, that gets special FDA authorization to be used during an emergency. When the health emergency is over, “then any EUA(s) issued based on that declaration will no longer remain in effect,” according to the FDA. –CNN

Now that these drugs are “fully approved,” the state of emergency can go at any time and they will still be able to convince people to take these shots. That’s what this has been about from the get-go, and the rulers have told us as much:

Ruling Class: The Scamdemic Won’t End Until The WHOLE WORLD Is Vaccinated