The United States has ordered the families of US diplomatic staff to immediately evacuate Belarus. The State Department is warning of “concerning” Russian troop movements near the border with Ukraine and heightened tensions in Eastern Europe.

“Do not travel to Belarus due to the arbitrary enforcement of laws, the risk of detention, and unusual and concerning Russian military buildup along Belarus’ border with Ukraine,” Washington officials said in an advisory on Monday, as they ordered the departure of the relatives of US government employees.

Less than two weeks ago, the ruling class warned the citizens of the U.S. to prepare for a possible war with Russia.

US Officials Warn Americans Of A Possible Russian Invasion

Responding to the news of the orders to evacuate, Anatoly Glaz, a spokesman for the Belarusian Foreign Ministry said the decision was “politicized” and insisted his country is “far safer and more hospitable than the US.” And he’s actually probably correct.

The move follows a similar decision last week when the State Department told the families of American diplomats in Ukraine to return home, citing the “continued threat of Russian military action.” US citizens were also strongly urged to avoid travel to the former Soviet Republic, according to a report by RT.

While US officials claim Russian military exercises in Belarus and close to the border with Ukraine could be a prelude to an invasion, Moscow has repeatedly denied it has any plans to launch an attack or invade Ukraine. At a United Nations Security Council meeting on Monday, Russian envoy Vassily Nebenzia instead accused Washington of looking to “provoke an escalation” over Ukraine, arguing that “talk about an impending war is provocative in itself.”

10 Signs That Indicate That The U.S., The UK, Israel And NATO All Believe That We Are On The Precipice Of War With Russia

“It looks like you’re calling for this, wanting and waiting for it to happen. As if you want to make your allegations a reality,” he said of the U.S.’s continued attempts to rile up Russia. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said last week that his government has not seen “any greater escalation than it [did] before.” Zelensky’s Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has argued much the same, suggesting that Western media reports have overstated the alleged threat, as “panic and fear are the most clickable.”

Keep your eyes peeled on this one. The mainstream media in the U.S. has been ginning up fear of a conflict for a long time. A false flag is entirely possible here; one that would “justify” the start of a major war between the U.S. and Russia. Stay up to date and aware while continuing to apply critical thinking and your own discernment. If the U.S. ruling class wants another war, they will eventually provoke one.