A board-certified embalmer with decades of experience said in a recent interview that for more than a year he has found “long, fibrous blood clots” in the bodies of some deceased people who got a COVID-19 vaccine. Richard Hirschman, who is also a funeral director, revealed his observations in an interview with Dr. Jane Ruby.

According to a report by The Exposé, Hirschman is “a medical professional with expertise in pharmaceutical drug development and over 20 years of experience in regulatory processes for FDA drug approval.”

Mr. Hirschman reported that he started seeing these long, stretchy, fibrous blood clots in November of 2020, and then increasingly being found in 50% of the bodies he has been processing. Today that percentage is now closer to 80%. He also said that he was able to confirm that some of those deceased with these blood clots had indeed received the Covid-19 vaccines, but he could not confirm all of them were vaccinated or what specifically is causing this increase in these usually long blood clots in the circulatory systems of the deceased. –Daily Exposé UK

Along with these strange blood clots, the number of strokes and heart attacks has increased noticeably, Hirschman said. He added that others in his field are feeling “nervous” about what they are increasingly finding. “If this is caused by the vaccine and my gut is telling me it is, I can’t prove that, but if this is caused by the vaccine, imagine the amount of people that will be dying in the future because people cannot live with this kind of substance floating around in their vessels,” Hirschman said. “If one of these small fibrous tissues, gets up into the brain, you’re going to have a stroke. If it gets into your heart, it’s going to lead you to a heart attack.” After noticing “worms” in some deceased people back in November Hirschman began keeping track of the numbers and documenting it himself. This month alone from the 35 people that he had personally embalmed, 20-24 had had them. “Needless to say, this should be investigated immediately, if not for the respect of the deceased, then to at least rule out if these long, fibrous blood clots are indeed a physiological result of the Covid-19 vaccines.” If they are not a result of the Covid 19 jabs, then what else has been increasingly occurring since November 2020 and could have caused them? Watch the entire interview on Rumble here: Continue to use your own critical thinking and discernment. In the age of censorship and lies, it’s all any of us have to go on anymore.