Britain is to begin the next chapter in its relationship with the European Union after Boris Johnson’s Brexit trade deal cleared parliament and entered into law in a single day with just hours to spare before the end of the transition period.

The legislation, which was passed by the House of Commons with an overwhelming majority of 448 votes, averted the possibility of a damaging no-deal exit from the bloc at the eleventh hour.

Peers then gave the European Union (Future Relationship) Bill an unopposed third reading before it was announced at 12.25am on Thursday morning that the legislation had been granted royal assent, officially signing the UK-EU deal into law.

Despite having formally severed ties with the EU on 31 January, the UK has remained a member of the single market and has been subject to all of the bloc’s rules while Brussels and London thrashed out a trading agreement.

With the Brexit transition period due to end at 11pm on New Year’s Eve, Boris Johnson succeeded where his predecessor, Theresa May, repeatedly failed, and convinced Tory MPs to back a deal he had agreed with the EU.

In a statement after the deal cleared parliament, Mr Johnson said: "I want to thank my fellow MPs and peers for passing this historic bill and would like to express my gratitude to all of the staff here in parliament and across government who have made today possible.

"The destiny of this great country now resides firmly in our hands. We take on this duty with a sense of purpose and with the interests of the British public at the heart of everything we do.

"11pm on the 31st December marks a new beginning in our country's history and a new relationship with the EU as their biggest ally. This moment is finally upon us and now is the time to seize it."

The Labour Party leader, Sir Keir Starmer, suffered a number of resignations from his front bench after he ordered Labour MPs to vote for the deal on the grounds that it was better than a no-deal outcome.

Before the historic vote, Mr Johnson told MPs that the agreement would bring “certainty” for businesses across the country following years of wrangling over the UK’s future trading relationship with the EU.

“This is the nub of it: those voting no today want yes. They want others to save them from their own vote. Voting no, wanting yes, that’s the truth of the situation and that’s why my party has taken a different path.”

The Labour leader also attacked Mr Johnson for failing to be “straight” with the British public over his incorrect claim last week that there would be “no non-tariff barriers” to trade under the UK-EU agreement, despite the government already admitting that businesses will face additional red tape.

But almost a fifth of Labour MPs rebelled by ignoring the order to back the deal, in what will be seen as a blow to Sir Keir’s authority.

In a swipe at hardline Brexiteers in her own party who judged the success of the deal by the extent to which it frees the UK from entanglement in multilateral organisations such as the EU, she declared: “Sovereignty does not mean isolationism.”

A Liberal Democrat attempt to prevent the legislation passing with a so-called fatal amendment was heavily defeated in the House of Lords by 466 votes to 101.