The report: " Human Augmentation - The Dawn of a New Paradigm. A strategic implications project " was published jointly by the UK Ministry of Defense, and German Federal Ministry of Defense in 2021. Reading this document is frankly chilling asThat planning for human augmentation must start now.We can assume that although this report is coming from theparallel efforts are being made by most large governments around the world.To begin this report highlights the important and benefits of human augmentation. From the report:Of course, one of the first questions that must be asked when reading this report is what is human augmentation. An image from the report lists the technologies. The back of the report details these technologies in great detail:The document goes on to write thatin developing human augmentation. The general consensus of the report is that human augmentation is critical for national security for the future development of warfare. It will be the military industrial complex (national interests) the ultimately decides what is developed.The report goes on:In reading this report, it is important to understand how military complexes around the world view the human augmentation model for warfare.The report make the point that warfare models mustone that comprises physical, psychological and social performance. This is summarized in the following image:Now read the caption from the report written below image at the top of the page, it states,It is important to understand that the development of human augmentation being presentedThe arrogance and hubris in this point of view is enormous.Another image from the report:The report goes on to discusses the advantages of genetic engineering:Another aspect of the report delves into personal information and the need to supersede such issues: To end, this 110 page report is detailed and complex. It documents the ways humans can be augmented in great detail. I ask all of you to please read this report. Absorb this information and get ready for the coming battle.We need to work to control and regulate the development of human augmentation now, before it truly is a fait accompli.(The above Images and quotes from the report entitled "Human Augmentation - The Dawn of a New Paradigm" are being used for educational purposes under Section 107 of the Copyright Act).