Republican legislators in Georgia are trying to dodge debate over the rising cheap-labor migration into their state — but they also are drafting bills that would steer more illegal migrants into the jobs and homes needed by young Georgians.D.A. King, founder of the Dustin Inman Society, which opposes illegal migration, said:by a pro-migration group that would otherwise provide family wages to Georgians. In 2020, for example, then-GOP Rep. Doug Collins stopped an illegal scheme to import Korean construction workers for a battery factory in Jackson County.The stealthy push for more migration into Georgia is justThe state campaignsIn Illinois, for example, the Chicago Sun-Times reported January 26 aboutadvocates have passed a law, advocates have passed laws that provideadvocates want to start putting illegals — but that will likely be blocked by elected Republican Gov. Glenn Youngkin.the GOP-led government is working to HB 999 bill is a school-choice bill that would quietly provide stateAdvocates are rushing to pass the bill during the state's legislature 40-day session, which ends April 4.allowing many parents to keep their kids out of the federal K-12 pro-diversity schools. But the bill has no requirement The bill is sponsored by GOP Reps. Wes Cantrell (Ga-22), Kasey Carpenter (Ga-4), Heath Clark (Ga-147), and several Democratic legislators, according to an article on King's website, immigrationpoliticsga.com.The bill was pushed January 28 by radio host Eric Erickson as a GOP outreach to non-white voters:Erickson — who opposed Donald Trump in 2016 — invited King to comment on the bill. King said:Erickson replied:would allow roughly— when attending college, places needed by young Georgians. The bill is also backed by Cantrell.The HB 120 bill is backed by the state's Chamber of Commerce and by FWD.us, the D.C.-based pro-amnesty advocacy group formed by wealthy coastal investors Georgia officials echo the cheap-labor message.Jeremy Williams, Gainesville City Schools superintendent, told the Gainsville Times on January 7.The HB 120 bill was backed in early January by a top Republican in the State Senate,He told the Gainsville Times on January 7:would allowfor foreign migrants delivered to Georgia by Biden's fast-expanding refugee and parole programs.The bill, according to King,Cantrell is also backing the bill, said King.However,of the HB 932 bill amid public protest.The state's establishment media does not want to talk about the pocketbook costs of migration.In his campaign to replace Gov. Kemp, former Sen. David Perdue also downplays any debate over legal and illegal migration. The state's farmers are a critical bloc in the state GOP, so even Trump also ignored the issue when he endorsed Perdue.Kemp ran on the immigration issue in 2018 but has done nothing on the issue since he was elected. Kemp's office did not respond to questions from Breitbart News.The Kemp campaign's description of the 2018 ad says:Many polls show that labor migration is deeply unpopular because it damages ordinary Americans' career opportunities, cuts their wages , and raises their rents In December, for example, the massive "modern-day slavery" scheme that sneaked cheap labor into Georgia's rural economy. The legally-imported, short-term foreign workersFor many years, a wide variety of polls has shown deep and broad opposition to labor migration and the inflow of temporary contract workers into jobs sought by young U.S. graduates. This opposition is multiracial persistent , and recognizes the solidarity Americans owe to each other.