Learning to support your health and wellness can be a challenge. One of the most common factors that get in the way of health is time. When our lives get busier, we have less time to devote to our health. Luckily, as 2022 begins, there are many ways to help slow down and support health easily.

Health is a journey. As you learn how to support your health journey, it’s important not to compare it to anyone else’s. Remember to be patient with yourself and allow room for growth. This guide breaks down what you need to know about taking care of your health in 2022.

Let’s take a closer look at what you need to know below.

Much of the world is moving towards virtual, online accessible resources. From online education, remote work, and teladoc visits, there are so many ways you can take advantage of health online. This is an excellent tool for those who are on the go, have busy schedules, or who’d prefer to stay home while managing their health.

How can you do this? Here’s what you need to know.

Vessel health is an online tool that helps you manage your health without leaving the comfort of your own home. This virtual platform offers access to nutritionists, doctors, health professionals, and much more so you can support your wellness from wherever you are.

It works using test strips you can pee on to gather results. Simply scan these results with the online tool or app to see what you need to do. The app will then guide you to increase hydration, vitamins, nutrients, or whatever else you need in response to your results.

Another way you can track and manage your health is by using an Apple Watch. Track your activity, manage your fitness, and keep tabs on your to-dos all at once with this convenient, portable accessory for taking care of your health.

Exercise is another critical aspect of health and wellness. When we exercise, we get our heart rates up and support cardiovascular health. In turn, this benefits faster delivery of oxygen to tissues, support for organ function, and increased energy. Other benefits of exercise include muscle growth, weight management, regulation for cholesterol and blood pressure, and more.

The benefits of exercising also extend to mental health. Exercise helps release dopamine, our feel good hormone, which can support overall mental wellness. Engaging in exercise is also an excellent way to soothe feelings of overwhelm and stress. Practices like yoga, walking, and stretching are especially effective for stress relief and mental health.

While exercise is absolutely essential to taking care of your health in 2022, finding the time to workout can be a challenge. Most gyms are packed with people, and in the wake of COVID-19, exercising so close to others may not seem appealing. This has led many to exercise from home.

Even when you take advantage of exercises you can do at home, you may miss the intensity and equipment you once had access to. This is where Peloton comes in handy. This exercise bike allows for intense training to push the mind and body without leaving the comfort of your own home. Enjoy access to a virtual trainer, different features and workouts, and even working out with others via the internet. Exercising from home doesn’t have to be lonely.

Sleep is another critical factor to health and wellness. Sleep is how our bodies reset and rejuvenate. When we sleep, we let our minds take a break and allow ourselves time to catch up. Lacking sleep can have a range of side effects.

Some short term side effects of not getting enough sleep include irritability, lack of appetite, feeling groggy and lacking focus, needing to nap in the middle of the day, or generally throwing off your circadian rhythm and sleep schedule.

However, lack of sleep can also have some long term side effects that are more serious. For instance, not getting enough sleep habitually can weaken the immune system, negatively impact memory and cognitive function, increase blood pressure, increase the risk for developing diseases, lead to weight gain, decrease sex drive, and much more.

Without sleep, our bodies simply cannot function the way they’re supposed to, so when it comes to health and wellness, sleep should be a priority. For some, prioritizing sleep can be a challenge. If you’re stressed, drink too much caffeine, or struggle with psychological issues, you may find it difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep at night.

Here are a few ways to help! First, make sure your bedding is comfortable. From your mattress to your comforter and sheets, you should be able to get comfortable at night. These are the best sheets for getting a good night’s sleep.

Pain is another factor that can keep many up at night. If you’re dealing with chronic pain in the joints, back, muscles, or other areas, you may experience difficulty falling asleep at night. Hempvana pain relief cream can help! Derived from the seeds of the cannabis sativa plant, hemp is a powerful, natural pain reliever. With fast-acting and long-lasting abilities, you can enjoy natural pain relief all night long.

If you have little ones, if they don’t sleep, neither will you. Consider these natural sleep drops to help put your little ones to sleep so you can catch some Zs, as well. Consider the Dream Sock for new babies and little ones, too! This smart baby monitor attaches to your baby’s foot and tracks their sleep so you can sleep better, too.

CBD has increased in popularity over recent years, and for good reason. This natural compound supports mental and physical health and wellness. But, did you know your pets could also enjoy the benefits of CBD? Cbd for pets is an excellent way to support your pet’s health naturally and provide relief from pain and discomfort.

When it comes to health, sexual wellness is important. How can you support your health in this way? There are many different ways, but Nugenix.com has a lot to offer. Support men’s vitality and wellness with this testosterone boosting supplement.

Another way to support sexual wellness for women is to use chemical-free, organic cotton pads for periods. This is not only sustainable for the planet, but for your body, too!

Staying Healthy in the Midst of COVID-19

It’s no secret that COVID-19 has become one of the largest health concerns. Luckily, as we move into a new year, we’ve learned how to keep one another safe. If you’re looking for safety in style, take a look at this Stylish PPE by stoggles!

It’s easy to get overwhelmed when we think of health on a large-scale. However, another way to look at health is at a cellular level. What is cellular health? In short, it is a way to support cellular wellness which in turn, supports overall wellness for our whole bodies. Along with healthy meal prep, cellular health, and the other tips mentioned in this guide, you can take control of your health this year and enjoy a new start.