(JD Heyes) An embalmer with decades of experience said in a recent interview that for more than a year he has found “long, fibrous blood clots” in the bodies of some deceased people who got a COVID-19 vaccine.

Related Profits Over People: Pfizer Pushes FDA to Approve Covid Vaccines for Children Under 5 Years Old

According to a report by The Exposé, board-certified funeral director and embalmer Richard Hirschman revealed his observations in an interview with Dr. Jane Ruby, “a medical professional with expertise in pharmaceutical drug development and over 20 years of experience in regulatory processes for FDA drug approval,” the site reported.

Specifically, Hirschman reports finding “arteries and veins filled with unnatural blood clot combinations” that also contain “strange fibrous materials” that have completely filled up the vascular systems of many people who have died during the pandemic and after vaccines became widely used.

In his interview with Ruby, Hirschman not only reported that he has never seen anything like what he now increasingly finds, but that he has discussed his findings with other embalmers and many of them have encountered the same phenomenon, The Exposé reported.

“Hirschman stated these clots or worm-like structures appear closely to vaccinated blood under a microscope, but he has never seen anything of these sizes before,” the outlet reported, adding that the embalmer states he began encountering the phenomenon of long, stretchy, fibrous clots in November 2020.

Eventually, he reported finding the clots in as many as 50 percent of deceased people he was embalming, but today that figure is closer to 80 percent, the outlet reported, citing Hirschman’s claims in his interview with Ruby.

He also said that he was able to confirm that some of those deceased with these blood clots had indeed received the Covid-19 vaccines, but he could not confirm all of them were vaccinated or what specifically is causing this increase in these usually long blood clots in the circulatory systems of the deceased.

Hirschman added that he has seen an increase in deaths resulting from heart attacks and strokes coming to his table. With increasing numbers of blood clots like these, that is no surprise.

He went on to say that other professionals in his field are becoming “nervous” about what they increasingly are finding as well, especially when they related it to the increasing number of people dying after getting COVID vaccines.

“If this is caused by the vaccine and my gut is telling me it is, I can’t prove that, but if this is caused by the vaccine, imagine the amount of people that will be dying in the future because people cannot live with this kind of substance floating around in their vessels,” he told Ruby.

He went on to say he thinks it is “amazing” how so many people are dying from heart attacks and strokes of late, adding: “If one of these small fibrous tissues gets up into the brain, you’re going to have a stroke.

“If it gets into your heart, it’s going to lead you to a heart attack,” he added.

After first noting an uptick in November 2020 of people he had embalmed with what he termed “worms” in their bloodstream, Hirschman says he began to keep track of the numbers and documented his findings.

In January alone, of the 35 people he has embalmed, he estimated that at least 20 of them had fibrous anomalies in their bloodstream.

“Needless to say, this should be investigated immediately, if not for the respect of the deceased, then to at least rule out if these long, fibrous blood clots are indeed a physiological result of the Covid-19 vaccines,” he told Ruby, adding that if the vaccines are not responsible, obviously something else is occurring.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.