(Joe Saunders, The Western Journal) It’s a Republican-sponsored poll, but Democrats had better be paying attention.

Related Arizona AG Brnovich: ‘Cartels Have Seized Control of Our Border’ Because of Biden

With most national political attention focused on the congressional midterm elections in November, where control of the closely divided House and Senate are at stake, state-level battles tend to get lost in the noise.

But according to a poll released Thursday in battleground states, President Joe Biden’s disastrous first year in office is having an impact on races well outside the Washington Beltway.

Respondents lived in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin.

Elected Democrats at the state level have a disapproval rating of 49 percent versus an approval rating of 44 percent, according to the release.

Even on issues where Democrats have a historic edge — such as education — the poll found Republicans are in a stronger position, according to the news release.

No one who followed Virginia’s election for governor in the fall would be surprised at that, considering Republican Glenn Youngkin rode fury over public education in the Old Dominion to victory over Democrat Terry McAuliffe, a former governor who’s made a lucrative career as a cog in the Democratic Party.

What got much less attention, but will be just as important in the long run, though, is that control over Virginia’s House of Delegates also changed hands in the same election in what had been considered a solidly blue state.

But the reality is, it jibes too well with other surveys related to national politics. Biden’s favorability rating with the American public nationally has been underwater for months — and still sinking.

Considering Biden ran on a promise of defeating the coronavirus (and millions were desperate enough, or foolish enough, to believe it), that’s bad news for the president and his party.

But Biden’s disastrous first year, with its painful inflation, infuriating illegal immigration and the humiliating, botched withdrawal from Afghanistan, has made things even worse for a party barely clinging to power as it is at the national level.

At the state level, Republicans already control 62 of 99 chambers, according to The Washington Times. (There aren’t 100 chambers because Nebraska has a unicameral state legislature that’s officially nonpartisan.)

Just as Biden’s ineptitude isn’t going to help his party in Congress, it’s likely to make the state-level numbers worse for Democrats.

And even if state-level elections don’t get the ink of national contests, they’re vital to the country’s system — only look at the redistricting processes going on this year that determine seats in Congress. The party that controls that can control the future.

As for the present, of course, headlines about Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and his Republican legislature show how important state governments are to the national scene on a daily basis.

Of course, an election isn’t won until it’s won. (And considering the propensity for cheating in Democratic jurisdictions of late, maybe not even then.)

Every conservative and Republican in the country who cares about the state of the nation — and the families who live in it — needs to turn out in the midterms to make sure every available seat goes to the GOP.

Democrats spent the Trump years proving they had no respect for the presidency. They’ve spent the Biden presidency so far proving they have no respect for the country — or their conservative countrymen.

According to these poll numbers, it’s showing.

There is nothing likely to change the Democratic outlook at this stage of the game. The party is too dominated by its leftist elements, too beholden to its special interest groups and too disdainful of conservative concerns to change course now.

But if they pay attention to polls like this, Democrats might realize what their country really needs from its political parties — and Joe Biden’s presidency isn’t it.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.