Despite there being no law mandating masks in the state of Virginia, school officials on the Loudoun County Public School board have vowed to suspend any kids who refuse to strap a mask to their faces while learning.

There is no law in Virginia, indeed, Governor Younkin issued an executive order prohibiting schools from imposing mask mandates.

However, some schools are refusing to overturn the mandates, after the masks became optional on January 24th.

The Loudoun County Public School system sent out a notice to parents stating that “Beginning on Wednesday, February 2, 2022, students who willfully continue to refuse to follow COVID mitigation measures as required by Loudoun County Public Schools will be suspended from school in relation to Violation of School Board Policy 8210, Introduction to Student Discipline, Section F.2. Willful or continued disobedience of school rules and regulation of school personnel; 3. Defiance of the authority of any teacher, principal or other person having authority on the school board.”

The letter to parents also noted that “A student who is suspended because of non-compliance with COVID-mitigation measures may return to school only when they agree to follow COVID-mitigation measures throughout the entire school day and at all indoor school-related events.”

One parent with three children in the school district, one of which has severe asthma, spoke to FOX5DC says she will continue to respect her children’s wishes not to wear masks.

“Each parent should get to make the decision that makes the most sense for their individual family,” Abbie Platt said, adding “We were so thrilled when the governor made that announcement, that’s because our little guy has chronic asthma, and he’s been on a nebulizer for two years.”

“When you have something trapped on your face, and you are not able to breathe properly, it creates a serious health problem,” the mother also noted.

Carrie Lukas, another parent with kids in the district revealed that her child was suspended from school last week for refusing to wear a mask.

“They really seem to take the compliance of most families as support for the masking rules when in fact, when you have high schoolers and older kids, they’re dangling suspensions at them, this is something that can impact their permanent record,” Lukas urged.

As we have previously reported, kids nationwide are now not only being forced to wear masks, but also routinely made to sit outside in freezing cold weather as a result of inhumane COVID-19 rules.

——————————————————————————————————————— 

Brand new merch now available! Get it at https://www.pjwshop.com/ 



ALERT! In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. 



We need you to sign up for our free newsletter here. 



Support our sponsor – Turbo Force – a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. 



Also, we urgently need your financial support here. ———————————————————————————————————————