CNN’s resident creepy clown Brian Stelter declared Monday that Joe Rogan does not have the credibility that the cable news network does, and that its a big “problem” that more people trust “talk show stars” rather than “real newsrooms.”

Responding to Rogan’s rebuttal to his critics, Stelter spoke with Kate Bolduan, another CNN host (note how the CNN hosts always act as their own guests).

Stelter questioned what has taken Spotify so long to fall into line with other tech platforms that have been actively censoring anyone who doesn’t parrot the establishment narrative for years now.

“Basically [Spotify is] doing what Twitter and Facebook and other platforms did two years ago. This is nothing original, nothing novel, they are belatedly responding to the pressure from artists and subscribers,” Stelter declared.

He then proclaimed that “not all opinions are created equal,” adding “You think about major newsrooms like CNN that have health departments and desks and operations that work hard on verifying information on COVID-19. And then you have talk show stars like Joe Rogan who just wing it, who make it up as they go along.”

Stelter continued, “because figures like Rogan are trusted by people who don’t trust real newsrooms, we have a tension, a problem that’s much bigger than Spotify, much bigger than any single platform… that’s what’s at the heart of this right now.”

This is the guy who has for years now campaigned for outright censorship of any and all of CNN’s competitors no matter who they are.

Last week he was in a school lecturing kids on what ‘misinformation’ means.

He has also peddled ‘Russia stole the 2016 election’ crap for five years straight, and continues to do so.

Yesterday he and his guests declared that Joe Rogan’s millions of viewers are ‘less enlightened’ than the few thousand who have failed to work out how to turn off CNN.

The idea that this fool has any credibility whatsoever is laughable.

Rogan, who found himself on the end of CNN slander last year over his use of Ivermectin to recover from COVID, has repeatedly pointed out how utterly devoid of credibility CNN has become, losing 90 percent of its viewership in 2021 alone, becoming ‘propagandists’ and the “right arm of Pfizer.”

Rogan previously tore into Stelter and another fake broadcaster at CNN, Don Lemon, declaring “the market has spoken and your show[s are] fucking terrible.”

“Everyone knows they’re not real. They’re not real humans,” Rogan asserted at the time.

New York Times correspondent Matthew Rosenberg raised a pertinent point Monday that Stelter should probably take into account:

——————————————————————————————————————— 

Brand new merch now available! Get it at https://www.pjwshop.com/ 



ALERT! In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. 



We need you to sign up for our free newsletter here. 



Support our sponsor – Turbo Force – a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. 



Also, we urgently need your financial support here. ———————————————————————————————————————