(Martin Walsh) MSNBC host Rachel Maddow is taking a hiatus from her prime time show on the left-leaning network.

Related After Failing To Pass BBB And Voter Reform, Chuck Schumer Moves On To Gun Control

“Rachel Maddow plans to step away from her show for a few weeks beginning this Friday, with plans to use the time to develop other projects for NBCUniversal, the MSNBC host announced on her show Monday night. Maddow said that one of those projects is a movie adaptation of her book Bag Man, which will be produced by Lorne Michaels and directed by Ben Stiller,” according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The Hollywood Reporter added in its report:

An MSNBC source said that a rotating group of hosts is expected to fill in for her while she’s gone. Maddow is expected to continue appearing on special event coverage, such as the State of the Union address, which is slated to be held on March 1, and she confirmed as much on her show.

It isn’t immediately clear how long Maddow will be off her show (the source said it would be “several weeks”). However, Maddow suggested on her program that she would be back in April, which would imply that she will be out for all of February and March.

The hiatus stems from Maddow’s new deal with NBCUniversal, signed last August, that included developing a broad range of new projects for the company, with an expectation that she would cut back on her nightly MSNBC duties.

“I’m going to take a little bit of time off from this show to go help with the movie. And also to work on a few other things that I have cooking with NBC right now, including a new podcast,” Maddow said.

“So just like late-night hosts sometimes go on hiatus in their shows, I’m going to go on hiatus for a little bit here from this show so I can work on some of those other projects,” she added. “In addition to the movie, the Bag Man movie and the podcast that I’m working on, the paperback of the Bag Man book is also coming out in just a few weeks, it’s coming out in April, there’s an adaptation of a different book that I want to try to make for TV as well that I’ve just started working on. There’s all this stuff I’ve been working on that I want to… work some more on.”

“I moved back in April! And there may eventually be another hiatus again sometime in the future, but for now, we are just taking it one step at a time. Again, I will be here through Thursday this week. And of course, while I’m away this show will continue to be run by the absolute best producers of this entire business and the amazing staff of the show. Don’t worry, you will be in very, very good hands. Change is good, changes absolutely terrifying. But in this case, it is good,” she concluded.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.