Discriminating against civil servants based on skin color will only upset and annoy people, a U.S. senator warned.

Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) criticized the Biden administration for promising to only appoint a female African American justice to the U.S. Supreme Court.

“The fact that he [President Biden] is willing to make a promise at the outset that it must be a black woman I have got to say that is offensive,” he said in a video shared on Twitter. “He is saying if you are a white guy tough luck [and,] if you are a white woman, tough luck–you do not qualify.”

Cruz believes it is wrong to prioritize black women, who represent about 6% of the national population, ahead of the overwhelming majority of Americans.

“He is saying to 94% of Americans ‘I do not give a [expletive] about you, you are ineligible,'” he can be heard saying.

The senator would much rather see black women appointed based on merit instead of race and gender.

“It is actually an insult to black women,” he said. “He could credibly say, ‘Okay, I am nominating the person who is most qualified’ but he is not even pretending to say that.”

He expressed sympathy for U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland who would have been eligible for nomination as Supreme Court justice.

“How much does it suck to be Merrick Garland? He is literally got to sit here and be told at the outset he is not eligible because sorry, wrong skin pigment and wrong white chromosome,” he said.

The Republican blamed this racial controversy on Democratic Party and “far left” political views.

“They will discriminate based on race, they will pigeon-hole you,” he said. “They do not care about the individual.”

The latest ABC News/Ipsos poll found more than three quarters (76%) of Americans want the president to consider all potential candidates no matter what their skin color is.

Only 23% of 510 respondents support Biden’s plan to appoint a black woman to the nation’s highest court.

“On the Supreme Court Americans are divided on the legal versus political nature of justices,” the summary of findings said. “However, a majority of Americans believe Biden should cast a wide net for potential new justices and not only consider black women as he has pledged to do.”