A Republican from Maryland expressed concern about risks associated with reappointing the previous party president.

Gov. Larry Hogan will not nominate Donald Trump as GOP presidential candidate for the 2024 general election because it is too risky.

“With America on the wrong path, the stakes are too high to double down on failure,” he said according to The Hill.

Hogan completely agrees with the Republican Arkansas governor that former President Trump should not “lead our party and our country again.”

“My friend Gov. [Asa] Hutchinson is exactly right,” he said according to the publication.

He admitted that he never fully recognized the previous president’s authority.

“I did not always toe the line [and] I was not swearing allegiance to, or agreeing with, the guy on every single issue–I did not,” he said according to Fox News.

In fact, the governor repeatedly challenged Oval Office decisions throughout the Trump administration era.

“I was not in step with 100% of what the [former] president was doing, so I would speak out and say what I think they needed to do better,” he said according to the broadcaster.

“I wanted the few to speak up and tell people exactly what I think, which is why a lot of the media on all over the map appreciated it because I just gave a straight answer without the spin,” he added.

He also resisted challenging the outcome of the 2020 presidential election, and quickly accepted Joe Biden as the 46th U.S. president.

“They would always call me a moderate [but] I am really a commonsense conservative,” he said according to Fox News.

The remarks sharply contradict the latest Harvard Center for American Political Studies/Harris poll results. The sample study of 1,815 registered voters revealed 57% of GOP supporters would select Trump as the next presidential candidate.

Twelve percent would nominate Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, while 11% former Vice President Mike Pence. All other Republicans only attracted a single-digit percentage.

“Former President Trump dominates the field of potential contenders for the 2024 Republican presidential nod but Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is an early favorite for the nomination in the event that Trump does not run again,” The Hill national politics journalist Max Greenwood previously said.