Dong Hong, former deputy head of the Central Inspection Unit of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), was found guilty of taking bribes. The court gave him a suspended death sentence.

The court found him taking advantage of his position to take over $73 million in bribes.

Hong said he would not appeal.

The case drew strong attention in mainland China because Dong was a former secretary for Wang Qishan, the former top anti-corruption official from the CCP and a close ally to Xi Jinping.

The Central Inspection Unit of the Chinese Communist Party is an anti-corruption agency.

In April, Dong was under investigation for serious law violations by CCP Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.

The court said that Dong was said to have surrendered to the authorities, and all his personal property was confiscated.

According to Dong Hong’s official biography, he started his career in the Central Advisory Committee. He served as secretary of Bo Yibo, a senior member of the Communist Party, and permanent deputy director of the Central Advisory Committee for nearly 10 years since 1983.

Dong also has an unusual relationship with the Bo Xilai family.

Dong Hong was known as the “great housekeeper” of Wang Qishan, the former secretary of the Central Discipline Inspection Commission. The case seems to have been settled when he was sentenced, but the official disclosure of many details still attracts attention. The case is said to be related to the 20th Congress of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).

Dong Hong was tried on January 28 in Qingdao, Shandong Province. According to information released by the court, from 1999 to 2020, the defendant Dong Hong used his position as a member of the bankruptcy liquidation team of Guangdong International Trust and Investment Company, deputy secretary of the CPC Hainan Provincial Committee, deputy secretary of the Beijing Municipal Government, deputy director of the Central Literature Research Office, and deputy head of the Central Inspection Group, as well as the convenience of his position and authority to act through the duties of other state employees to extort bribes. In addition, he also took advantage of his position as the deputy director of the Central Literature Research Office and deputy head of the Central Inspection Unit, as well as the convenience of his position and authority to obtain benefits from the relevant units and individuals in the areas of project development, project contracting and job promotion.

Dong Hong’s extortion spans over 21 years in Guangdong, Hainan, and Beijing when he illegally gained over $463 million.

The court disclosed that Dong Hong “voluntarily surrendered.” The court said he would have been sentenced to death, but because he surrendered voluntarily and confessed to all his crimes, he was “sentenced to death and not immediately executed.”

In recent years, “voluntarily surrendered” is often used when officials are reported for investigation. For example, last May, the CCP’s Xinhua website said that 16,000 people surrendered to the disciplinary and supervisory authorities in 2020, making “voluntarily surrendering” a highly frequently used word in case reports.

Other high-ranking officials who voluntarily surrendered in recent years include:
• Ai Wenli, former vice-chairman of the CPPCC in Hebei; Wang Tie, former deputy director of the Standing Committee of the Henan Provincial People’s Congress;
• Qin Guangrong, former secretary of the Yunnan Provincial Party Committee;
• Liu Shiyu, former director of the CCP’s National Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives;
• Wang Like, former secretary of the Political and Legal Committee of the Jiangsu Provincial Party Committee.

The difference between active surrender and automatic surrender is still controversial. However, it is generally believed that active surrender is used within the party and may not involve a crime of duty.

In addition, the reporter found that Dong Hong was sentenced to death on probation but did not use the exact wording as for other senior officials who were sentenced to death on probation before, such as Bai Enpei ($247 million in bribes), Zhao Zhengyong (over $717 million in bribes), and Xing Yun ($449 million in bribes).

The regime’s intention was not to enforce the death penalty, maintain stability within the party, and ensure that there was no disruption before the 20th National Congress.

The company’s main goal is to provide a high quality service to the public.

Born in 1953, Dong Hong, 69, a native of Haicheng City, Liaoning Province, graduated from the Party History Department of Renmin University of China in 1983 with a degree in Chinese Communist Party (CCP) history.

He has been with Wang Qishan since 2000, following him from Guangdong, the State Council Reform Office, Hainan, and Beijing to the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, and accompanying him on his inspections.

According to official reports, Dong Hong has participated in several rounds of inspection work as the deputy head and head of the Central Inspection Group. In the many rounds of inspections, Dong Hong has vowed to emphasize “strong anti-corruption.” For example, in the examination of Fudan University, Dong Hong had mentioned in the mobilization meeting the Central Inspection Group will “dare to take a hard line—zero tolerance for corruption.”

Before becoming deputy head of the Central Inspection Group in October 2013, Dong Hong was also deputy director of the Central Literature Research Office from June 2006 to August 2013.

He also served as deputy director of the Central Literature Research Office, which shows that he is familiar with the history and rules of the CCP.

According to a previous commentary published by Epoch Times, “Wang Qishan’s old ministry, Dong Hong, was fired,” one of the messages released by Dong Hong’s conviction is that CCP authorities have been fighting corruption with corruption. The fact that Wang Qishan, the top anti-corruption official at the time, used a person who was also a major corrupt official show that the CCP’s anti-corruption efforts have reached a dead end. This case highlights increasing corruption in the CCP for the world to see. If the one-party dictatorship is not abandoned, the Communist Party’s officialdom will continue to rot.

The court found Dong Hong had been corrupt for more than 21 years

According to the prosecutors, at the time of his indictment, Dong Hong had been a member of the “deputy secretary of the Hainan Provincial Party Committee” for 21 years. However, the court ultimately found that Dong’s illegal wealth accumulation began much earlier in 1999 when he was a member of the bankruptcy liquidation team for Guangdong International Trust and Investment Company (GITIC).

In January 1999, the Guangdong High Court ruled that GITIC was bankrupt, making it the first financial institution in China to go bankrupt. In February 2003, the Guangdong High Court ruled to end the bankruptcy proceedings case and retained the liquidation team to recover and distribute the bankruptcy assets.

Dong Hong served as deputy director and director of the Guangdong Provincial Government Development Research Center, deputy secretary and secretary of the party group in 1998. In addition, he served as deputy secretary of the Guangdong Provincial Government, director of the Department of Industry System of the Economic System Reform Office of the State Council, deputy secretary of the Hainan Provincial Party Committee, and deputy secretary of the Beijing Municipal Government from March 2000.

Wang Qishan, then vice governor of Guangdong Province, issued the bankruptcy order, but Li Changchun, then secretary of the Guangdong Provincial Party Committee, was the Jiang faction official.

According to the U.S.–based current affairs commentator Tang Jingyuan, the authorities had made a big deal out of the fact that Dong Hong’s recourse to illegally profiting from bankruptcy cases dates back to the time when he was a member of the bankruptcy liquidation team of GITIC, implying the authorities have an intention to hammer Wang Qishan.

Dong Hong’s trial took place in Shandong. Bo Xilai, the former secretary of the CPC Chongqing Municipal Committee, was sentenced to life in the first trial at Jinan Central Court.

In 2018, local media in Shandong mentioned in an article “Why is Shandong a ‘Tiger Trial Town.'” The report noted that there is usually some consideration as to which province the Supreme Prosecutor finally gives the specific task of “trial of tigers.” It is said that the “designation of jurisdiction” also takes into account “case experience” and “geographical factors.”

According to Dong Hong’s official biography, he started his career in the Central Advisory Committee and served as the secretary of Bo Yibo, a senior member of the Communist Party and permanent deputy director of the Central Advisory Committee, for nearly 10 years since 1983, and has an unusual relationship with the Bo Xilai family.