POLICE have said they can only use special powers in response to potentially dangerous car meets if they have intelligence beforehand.

This comes after drivers notched up speeds of more than130mph during a huge event that began near Southampton.

About 50 vehicles converged on Rownhams services on the M27 on Saturday, before being driven to an Asda store at Havant via the A27.

The group then moved on to Sainsbury’s in Farlington, where the car-meet grew to more than 400 vehicles and 1,500 people.

A spokesperson for Hampshire Constabulary said: "Dispersal orders are one of the tactics available to us, which can be used proactively where there is intelligence and information available before an event, and where it is proportionate, necessary and justified to do so.

"We will continue to review intelligence and information available about any future events."

During the event, police stopped two vehicles sighted racing on the A27 at speeds in excess of 130mph. One of these drivers was then arrested on suspicion of drug driving

Two drivers were reported for careless driving, two were issued s59 warnings meaning police can seize their vehicles if they continue to display anti-social behaviour, and two fixed penalty notices were issued for number plate offences.

A number of other drivers were also stopped and given words of advice

Chief Inspector Chris Spellerberg, of the Roads Policing Unit, said: “We know these events can be of great concern to the local community due to the noise, anti-social behaviour and dangerous driving. The majority of car enthusiasts want to meet because they are passionate about their hobby, however as last night’s activity demonstrates there are a minority who cause disruption and put members of the public at serious risk.

“By travelling at extremely high speeds and under the influence of drugs, you could kill someone, including yourself. This behaviour is simply not acceptable.

“Hampshire Constabulary will not allow such behaviour to go unchallenged and we ask all drivers to act responsibly and drive safely. We will continue to take action, making use of available legislation which can include seizing vehicles, penalty notices, notifying insurance companies, dispersal notices or arrest and prosecution if necessary.

“We will review incidents and reports of anti-social or dangerous driving linked to car meetings, including mobile phone footage, footage from dash-cams and CCTV, and Body Worn Video footage from officers, to identify offences. Where there is evidence of offences, we will take further action."