COUNTY chiefs will meet to discuss a budget that proposes to slash £80 million by April 2023.

Current plans include £22.6m being cut from children’s services and £3.3m from culture and communities.

An additional £10.2m is set to be cut from transport and environment, including an £800,000 cut to community transport services.

Members of Hampshire County Council’s Cabinet will meet on February 8 to discuss these plans, and how to provide £2.4bn of public services to Hampshire’s 1.4 million residents

Councillor Keith Mans, leader of the council, said: “Every year, we have factored into our budget plans a funding shortfall of around £40m – hence the £80m budget gap we have been planning for up to April 2023.

"To date, our strategy for dealing with these shortfalls has been to secure savings in two-year cycles, using our reserves carefully in the intervening years, to give us time to implement the necessary savings. However, since our most recent two-year savings round was agreed back in the autumn, major new budget pressures have emerged, pushing up our forecast gross budget deficit for 2022/23 from £40m to £97m.

"This is due to pressures including the financial impact of COVID, but most notably, the growth in the cost of adult social care, driven by market prices now around 18% higher than expected. What’s more, we have lost around £7m from the adult social care precept which Government has cut from a 2% increase in council tax, down to just 1%.

"Agency costs have also risen significantly to manage higher numbers of referrals in children’s social care, and inflation is now at its highest level since 2011, which is impacting on a range of costs, particularly our energy budgets."

Cllr Mans acknowledged there has been some Government funding to help with the deficit.

He said this will help to buy time to not only consider the best approach to address the issue.

"Beyond that, we need significant extra Government funding to meet future shortfalls from the huge rises in adult social care costs - all coming on top of the £640m of spending reductions we will have already made to 2023/24," continued Cllr Mans.

"We have repeatedly said to Government that without a long-term sustainable funding solution to the growth in social care costs, the county council is not financially sustainable in the longer-term and this has never been truer for our current outlook. This is a national problem, and we will be pressing the Government to address this serious position with us over the coming year.”

The cabinet will also consider proposals for a total increase of 2.99% in Hampshire County Council’s council tax precept for the financial year beginning 1 April 2022, of which 1% would go specifically towards adults’ social care, in line with Government policy.