Speaking to Channel 4 News, senior Tory Charles Walker said Boris Johnson should consider standing down to help the country heal and recover from "a lot of grief and pain", and that he would "applaud" Mr Johnson for doing so.

The Broxbourne MP told Channel 4 News: “I think people are angry, I think there's a lot of grief and pain and anxiety out in the country which was natural after 20 months lockdown. “And I do believe the Prime Minister has got many things right, vaccine boosters, coming out of lockdown in the summer, holding his nerve over Christmas and allowing us to have Christmas. “But I think there's so much grief and pain out there that if he was to say, ‘Look, I understand that I asked so much of the country and it needs to come to terms with that grief and pain and start the process of healing and if it could do that better without me in Number 10 then I shall stand aside’... "That would show great courage on behalf of the Prime Minister." JUST IN Moment Speaker erupts claiming he's 'very worried' of direction of Commons under Boris

Mr Walker added how he would "applaud" Mr Johnson for doing that but added it is "his decision” whether he throws in the towel or not. The Conservative refused to say if he had submitted a letter of no confidence in the Prime Minister to Graham Brady, chair of the 1922 Committee. Mr Walker's interview, where he also told Cathy Newman his plans to step down at the next election, aired on Tuesday night. The comments follow a torrid week for the Prime Minister following the release of the Sue Gray report into COVID-19 rule busting parties held at Number 10 during lockdown. READ MORE Moment Boris shakes his head in disbelief at BBC journalist's question in Ukraine

Ms Gray concluded how Mr Johnson has presided over "failures of leadership" with the sixteen parties she was tasked with investigating as they went against COVID-19 rules the British public were following at the time. Twelve of the sixteen bashes are now being investigated by the Metropolitan police and Mr Johnson has said "sorry" for the parties. The Sue Gray report also called on changes to be made in the Downing Street operations, arguing how the number of staff working in No 10 Downing Street has "steadily increased in recent years". She stressed the situation as being "more akin to a small Government Department than purely a dedicated Prime Minister’s office". DON'T MISS

Andrew Neil says PM has just made an almighty gamble [REVEALED]

Speaker Hoyle REFUSES to rebuke Starmer for calling PM a liar [SPOTLIGHT]

Covid rule change expected after scientists forced to admit error [LATEST]