The former Scottish Conservative leader appeared on Channel 4 to give a passionate assault on No. 10 for alleged illegal lockdown parties while the rest of the country was following the rules. However, Nile Gardiner, foreign policy analyst and former aide to Margaret Thatcher, shot back by highlighting her lack of support for Brexit, which he states is “the biggest issue for British conservatives in the modern era.”

In her appearance on Channel 4, Ms Davidson appeared to be close to tears as she said: “I am upset, not just because of what my family and friends had to give up, but what I saw when I was working in the Scottish parliament. “I had people who had lost businesses, I had people that felt guilty that they didn’t go to the care home to see their parents, that they didn’t hug a friend at a funeral because they played by the rules. “And then you look at what happened in No. 10 and those people feel like idiots, and they shouldn’t be made to feel like that.” Earlier in the interview, Ms Davidson said that it was "appalling" that 12 out of the sixteen gatherings examined in the Sue Gray report "reached the threshold for potential criminality".

he added: "At a time of national crisis. I mean, the idea because this has gone on for three or four months, you know, to take a step back and just look at that, that is appalling and it makes a mockery of all the sacrifices that people in the country made to stick to the rules, rules which were being set in a building where those same rules were wilfully broken." However, Mr Gardiner responded by tweeting: “Ruth Davidson didn't even back Brexit, the biggest issue for British conservatives in the modern era.” Ms Davidson said in 2019 that she was “hopelessly conflicted” over Brexit. Appearing on ITV’s Lorraine shortly after standing down as leader of the Scottish Conservative Party, Ms Davidson said: “I campaigned for Remain, I believe in Remain, but I also believe if you ask a question and say it’s too big for politicians to make the decision and the country has to and the country makes the decision, even if it wasn’t the decision I would have made, you’ve got to honour that. READ MORE: Sunak hints at huge VAT change – Chancellor 'looking at' move [INSIGHT]

“So, I do support Brexit happening even if I didn’t want it to happen." Some Twitter users questioned the relevance of Mr Gardiner’s criticism of Ms Davidson over her remarks about the Government, with one saying: “True but she’s right with this in my opinion.” Another questioned whether her lack of support for Brexit disqualified her from having an opinion on the alleged lockdown parties. In further conflict between Scottish MPs and Mr Johnson, SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford was removed from the House of Commons yesterday after he refused to withdraw accusations that Mr Johnson had misled parliament. DON'T MISS: Frost sent reeling as Boris slaps down ex-Brexit chief [ANALYSIS]

State pension outrage as SNP's Blackford claims UK will pay for Scots [INSIGHT]

Cyclists engulfed in exhaust fumes as drivers rage at new rules [REACTION]