now and never miss the top politics stories again Sign up fornow and never miss the top politics stories again We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. More info

The EU and UK came to an agreement in January 2021, resulting in changes to fishing quotas for European vessels in British waters. But EU boats are still able to fish in British waters for another four years as the UK battles to reclaim control of its coastal waters.

The deal ensured 25 percent of EU boats' fishing rights in UK waters will be transferred to the British fleet over a period of five years. After that, annual negotiations will decide how the catch is shared out between the UK and EU, and Britain would have the right to completely exclude EU boats after 2026. Britain and France have squabbled for decades over access to the rich fishing grounds around their Channel coasts. Under new rules enforced after Brexit, French fishermen must apply for a permit to enjoy unfettered access to UK waters.

Last month, Britain has approved more than 90 percent of fishing licences France has applied for. But France has claimed UK officials are still withholding another 73 permits. The UK Government issued 23 additional licences, but France has remained furious at the actions of the British. And now, Olivier Leprêtre, the president of the regional fisheries committee, has vowed to "fight until the end". READ MORE: Emmanuel Macron backs down on threats to sue over post-Brexit fishing

In an article in Hauts-de-France, Mr Leprêtre said: "Out of a hundred applications, there are still 16 licenses to be won, 13 of which concern gillnetters, boats under 12m. "Last week, we obtained three licenses for substitutes. "The fishing masters have the certificates of their old trawler recognized so that their new boats can sail in British waters. "This is my case, I obtained the license for my new trawler last week, after 13 months of negotiations." DON'T MISS 

Liz Truss facing 'COLLAPSED' United Kingdom [INSIGHT] 

Macron's 'Mr Brexit Fishing' makes way to Jersey [REVEAL] 

Foreign trawlers 'napalming' Channel by dumping tons of fish [COMMENT]

He went on to say how he is at the "heart of the debate" and accused Britain of "always adding more". Mr Leprêtre continued: "I am at the heart of the debate: I see very well the relentlessness that there is from the ministry and all its teams, to manage to snatch its licences. "The problem is that the British always add more. "The less permits they give us, the better it will be for them.

"It's fair game: after all, in our waters, we don't want the Dutch either. "Normally, litigation has been triggered, the conflict has been brought before European Affairs." He added how he does not "understand the attitude of the British" and said it is "my fight and I hope to succeed". Prime Minister Boris Johnson has come under fire by fishing industry experts who claimed he "sacrificed" the industry to "get Brexit done".