now and never miss the top politics stories again Sign up fornow and never miss the top politics stories again We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. More info

Sue Gray’s report, released on Monday during England’s coronavirus lockdown, said gatherings "represent a serious failure to observe not just the high standards expected of those working at the heart of Government but also of the standards expected of the entire British population at the time".

The Prime Minister apologised and said immediate changes would take place in No 10. But German media mocked Mr Johnson’s apology. The outlet said: “For him, it seems, a faint ‘sorry’ is all that follows a devastating preliminary investigation report." Bild’s report then added: “He got Brexit done, he got the economy back on track, he built 14 hospitals and he stands side by side with our allies against Vladimir Putin’s aggression. “Johnson as you know him.”

Spanish daily newspaper El Pais mocked up a photo of Mr Johnson clad in hi-vis driving a forklift on Tuesday’s front page. It came with the headline: “Report on parties deals another blow to Johnson: The report on gatherings held amid the pandemic condemns alcohol consumption." More Spanish papers commented on the Prime Minister, with business daily Expansión running a feature entitled “Goodbye, Boris”, while El Mundo's inside headline read: “Little leadership and much beer. READ MORE: New blow for Boris as Tory says time for PM to go 'People are angry!'

La Repubblica, an Italian paper, declared “Boris now risks his career”, and claimed the PM “has officially entered his darkest hour”. Russian media outlets also poured scorn on the Prime Minister, after it emerged Mr Johnson postponed a phone call with Vladimir Putin to deal with the release of Ms Gray’s report. On Tuesday, Mr Johnson arrived in Ukraine to show support for Kyiv amid fears of war with Russia, but was asked by the international press about ‘partygate’. Russia vs Ukraine: How 'new type of espionage' could disrupt the UK [EXPLAINER] 'I can't believe it!' Furious Angela Rayner LOSES IT with Boris [UPDATE] ‘We all lose people!’ Vine callers clash on Partygate and Covid deaths [LATEST]

Standing next to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Mr Johnson was asked whether he would commit to publishing the full inquiry. The Prime Minister said: “Yes, of course we’ll publish everything that we can as soon as the process has been completed, as I said yesterday.” On Tuesday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki also answered questions about 'Partygate'. When asked if Mr Biden has ever been “ambushed by a cake”, Ms Psaki laughed the question off.