Liverpool have already started preparing for the next transfer window after sealing the exciting signing of Porto forward Luis Diaz this winter.

The next window will be the club's first without sporting director Michael Edwards for some time with the transfer supremo set to step down, but that hasn't stopped the club from making plans.

Two Arsenal targets are said to be the topic of discussion at Anfield and the Reds could make moves once the summer window opens.

It comes after Diaz's arrival stopped Arsenal from moving for a striker target in the final hours of the January window.

And star man Mohamed Salah has reacted to a shock Africa Cup of Nations exit.

Have Your Say! How would you rate Liverpool's January transfer window ? Tell us what you think here.

Mohamed Salah has explained just how "tough" the Africa Cup of Nations is following the latest shock exit from the competition.

Salah's Egypt are still going strong in the tournament and have booked their place in the last four of the competition after beating Morocco in Sunday's quarter-final clash.

They will now face Cameroon in the semi-final as the competition reaches its business end.

And Salah has used Nigeria's shock knockout to explain just how hard it is to win the Africa Cup of Nations.

Liverpool's signing of Porto star Luis Diaz inadvertently prevented Arsenal from bringing in a new striker on transfer deadline day.

The Gunners had reportedly been offered Porto's Mehdi Taremi on loan earlier in the January transfer window, but pursued moves for Dusan Vlahovic, Alexander Isak, Dominic Calvert-Lewin, Jonathan David and Luka Jovic but saw moves for all of them fall apart.

By the time the Gunners returned for the Porto striker, who has 11 goals in 19 Primeira Liga matches so far this season, his club were no longer willing to let him go after losing Diaz to Liverpool.

And it appears Arsenal could learn a thing or two from the Portuguese side's transfer tactics.

Liverpool could further irritate Arsenal in the transfer market by swooping for two of their summer targets, according to reports.

Both clubs appear to be keen to add more options in midfield during the next transfer window, and could target Aurelien Tchouameni and Youri Tielemans.

Tielemans is expected to be on the move next summer with his contract at Leicester City set to expire at the end of the season, while France international Tchouameni has been linked with some of the top clubs across Europe.

But details of Liverpool's plans have now been revealed.