The BBC has released the trailer for the fourth and final season of Killing Eve, as Jodie Comer and Sandra Oh prepare for the concluding run in the cat and mouse drama.

The first look at the tense award-winning drama shows Eve Polastri (Sandra Oh) and Villanelle (Jodie Comer) will return to their fiery game of psychological tug of war, while boss Carolyn Martens (Fiona Shaw) sets her sights on tracking down The Twelve, the international organisation that employs assassins.

The final moments of the third season of the BBC drama left viewers in nail-biting suspense, as Villanelle and Eve stood poised on the Tower Bridge, with the possibility one would push the other over the edge in the air.

In the end, the pair turned their backs on one another and slowly walked away, but not before one final glance back, leaving Killing Eve fans to wonder what could be in store next for the two women.

The season four trailer now opens with breakout star Comer as Villanelle, sharing: “I killed two people last night after I tried really hard not to,” as a man replies, “Okay, well, that's not ideal.”

Later in the teaser, Eve confesses that she shot someone in the hand - but fans also see Carolyn ask Eve to take over The Twelve investigation as a mystery individual has been killing off members of the organisation.

Although she previously planned to walk away, we see intelligence investigator Eve pull out her notes and return to the hunt - until she eventually comes face to face with Villanelle once again.

As the blonde assassin tries to convince Eve she has changed, her adversary retorts: “If you'd really changed, you wouldn't have come here.”

Villanelle, knelt on the floor and donning a cross necklace, replies: “If you'd really changed, you wouldn't have let me.”

Konstantin later warns Eve that whatever she's up to, she “won't come out of it”, to which she simply replies: “Thank God.”

Interspersed with shots of stabs, slaps and hugs, fans read the words in the trailer: “On February 27 - The Final Season - The Final Obsession."

Speaking on This Morning last year, Jodie Comer told co-hosts Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield she was about to shoot the last two episodes of the season.

She said that she hoped the show would provide a “good and satisfying” ending to fans - but did not completely rule a future film based on the series.

She said: “It's very surreal, we are just about to start filming the last two episodes. We want to end on a good note and on a satisfying note for the audience. It's been a huge part of all our lives.

“I feel emotional even thinking about it. I want to take a clapper board with me when we wrap up!

“It will be great to end in a way as if you go on and on with a series the quality can fade, but it will be hard to not see those people every day.”

The fourth season of Killing Eve will air on BBC One and BBC America on February 27.