Travis Barker's daughter Alabama looked fresh-faced in a rare make-up free selfie following backlash from fans.

The 16-year-old was told to "act her age" by trolls who hit out at her for her appearance.

Alabama, who is often seen with a heavy palette of make up on, recently said that she was "over everybody" after she was scrutinised.

The teen, whose Instagram bio is "I break hearts" posed in an over-sized black t shirt with a bold logo on the front.

Travis' youngest child danced around her bedroom to Cupid remix by 2 Rare.

Her long blonde hair had two pretty braids in the front and she appeared to be wearing no trousers or shorts.

Fans praised her for showing her 'silly side' and for letting her hair down a little.

"She's so precious it hurts," one wrote.

Another added: "Can I just say you look absolutely stunning without any makeup onnnnnn!"

A third echoed: "She’s naturally beautiful! U don’t need no makeup babe"

The influencer regularly comes under criticism for her glammed up photos, resulting in with some followers criticising her "mature" look.

"And she is how old????" one person wrote.

While others have said: "Hun you are a minor, you can't sexualize yourself like this" and "You are 16!!!! Where the hell are your parents??"

She shared four selfies spliced together showing off a cropped haircut in her signature blonde shade.

Flipping the middle finger she captioned the snaps: "So over everybody."

She was asked by a fan: "How do you deal with the negativity im struggling with all the people in my hometown."

She replied: "There's so many different ways people cope with negativity, i personally just try and distance myself and just focus on myself, never let people get power over your energy."

In another video she danced in a black puffer jacket over a bralette with her signature full-face of make up.

Her friend and older brother Landon, 18, made appearances in the video.

Last year she posted a TikTok video that fans called "awkward" and "embarrassing".

In the clip she danced in front of her dad in a brown leather jacket and a pair of low-rise skinny jeans.

Rocker Travis sat in a hoodie, wearing a pair of slippers on a bed as his daughter pranced in front of him.

Landon got in on the action again and did his own dance over to the bed to sit beside his dad - who seemed to be frozen in place throughout.

Her dad Travis is currently engaged to Kourtney Kardashian, meaning Alabama will be joining the Kardashian-Jenner clan.