The objection will force the Senate to debate Mr. Hawley’s claim for up to two hours, followed by a vote affirming Mr. Biden’s victory. Rejecting the challenge requires a simple majority vote. For Congress to sustain Mr. Hawley’s opposition, both chambers would have to do so, a virtual impossibility given that Democrats control the House.

Senate Republicans have shown a greater willingness to buck the president’s demands in the final weeks of his presidency, resisting his call to approve $2,000 stimulus checks and preparing to override his veto on the annual military bill.

But the risk of internal political backlash for Republicans who vote to quash the effort is far from theoretical. After Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican, said that he hoped senators would realize the election was over and that attempts to overturn the outcome would “go down like a shot dog,” Mr. Trump called on Twitter for Mr. Thune, who is up for re-election in 2022, to face a primary challenge. “Political career over!!!” the president added.

The issue could become particularly charged for two Georgia Republicans, Senators Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, who are facing tight runoff elections next week that will determine control of the Senate.

“Everything’s on the table right now,” Ms. Loeffler said at a campaign stop at the Ocmulgee River Gun Club in Macon, Ga. “That vote is Jan. 6, and I’m going to continue to fight for this president because he fought for us.”

The parallel effort in the House is being led by Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, who has said there was “serious voter fraud and election theft in this election,” even though there is considerable evidence to the contrary. He is eyeing challenges to the election results in five states — Arizona, Pennsylvania, Nevada, Georgia and Wisconsin — where Trump loyalists claim that varying degrees of fraud or illegal voting took place, despite certification by the voting authorities and no evidence of widespread impropriety.

Those challenges are required to have a senator’s signature affixed, according to the Constitution and the Electoral Count Act of 1887.