Dan Walker reunited with his Strictly Come Dancing partner Nadiya Bychkova in his hometown of Sheffield.

The professional dancer, 32, was in the city for the show's live tour and stopped off to pay her pal a visit.

BBC Breakfast presenter Dan, 44, introduced the mum-of-one to a spot of golf and shared a snap of Nadiya, who looked delighted with life.

In one pic she can be seen mid-swing and in another looks every inch the professional posing with a golf club.

Dan captioned the pic: "Can’t believe the swing in this post was within 1 hour of picking up a golf club for the first time. 



 "Annoyingly good already."

Nadiya replied: "Today I had my first ever lesson with the amazing @benmasongolf at @igolfstudio in Sheffield.

"Thank you partner @mrdanwalker for sorting it out. I never knew it would be so much like dancing. I can’t wait to play again." 



 "Now I need to get ready for our first Strictly show in Sheffield. I hope you have a brilliant night if you’re coming."

Another Strictly star who fancied practicing his swing was Kai Widdrington.

Dan shared a snap of the pair on the golf course in which Kai, 26, can be seen grinning sporting a rather fetching Carhartt beanie.

The former Football Focus presenter captioned the pic: "Great afternoon whacking a ball around with @kaiwidd."

Kai and Nadiya have been subject to a number of rumours of romance since they started the Strictly tour.

The Ukrainian-born dancer recently split from her fiancé, Slovenian footballer Matija Skarabot - who is dad to her six-year-old daughter Mila - and has been pictured getting close with fellow pro dancer Kai.

The pair have sent the rumour mill into overdrive while on the Strictly Come Dancing live tour, and on Friday, they were captured kissing in the lobby of Newcastle's Malmaison hotel.

Nadiya’s relationship with her celebrity dancing partner Dan was also the subject of speculation last year, as insiders told The Sun he was “like a schoolboy” around the blonde bombshell.

However, the professional dancer has rubbished rumours about her love life, insisting she was just a “normal woman” - even if she has posed for Playboy.

“When I came to a new environment in London, I was immediately labelled a model, Ukrainian beauty and seductress,” she told Slovenian Nova magazine.

“It took me a while to realise that I am also a successful dancer, a mum, and a completely normal woman."