Kim Kardashian has recreated some of her her sexiest looks from trips with Kanye 'Ye' West for romantic getaways with new beau Pete Davidson.

The 41-year-old Keeping Up With The Kardashians beauty filed for divorce from the rapper almost one year ago, in February 2021, and started dating the Saturday Night Live comedian last year.

Kim and Kanye, fondly named Kimye, have now been estranged for quite some time. Ye has since shacked up with Uncut Gems star Julia Fox.

While Kimye were married and loved up, they enjoyed many lavish holidays, with Kim donning some seriously sexy looks for her hubby of seven years.

Keeping the jet-set lifestyle, Kim now enjoys getaways with her new beau, Pete – and the past few months have seen the pair jet to some luscious locations, in and around America, as well as globally.

But Kim has been recreating her sexiest looks from her trips with Kanye while holidaying with her new man.

One recent pic shows the raven-haired beauty pose wearing a string bikini brief and a shirt over the top of a bikini top.

It's near identical to a snap from back when she was with her estranged husband, Ye, where she can be seen sporting a cream bikini and wrap top.

Another recent pic which is strikingly similar is a posed snap of the global star donning a co-ordinated workout set.

In the photo from when she was loved up to her husband, Kim could be seen donning a bright yellow pair of yoga pants and matching crop top – flashing peace signs and posing with her signature pout.

And the more recent snap from lavish trips with Pete, Kim can be seen wearing a near identical yoga kit but this time in pink, and again she's pouting and flashing peace signs.

Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here.

Pete has reportedly been "encouraging" Kim to wear whatever she wants when they're together.

When Kim was with Kanye, he supposedly picked out her outfits, but Pete wants her to feel truly comfortable with him, a source told PageSix.

MailOnline reported that a source has said that Kim is "super happy and relaxed" when with Pete, because he “doesn’t care about appearances or being cool.”

The source added: “With Pete, Kim feels zero pressure to be anything but herself.”

Back in 2019 at the coveted Met Gala, Kim wore an iconic Thierry Mugler dress, dubbed as 'dripping'.

Kanye was quick to critique her look during an episode of KUWTK! when fans got a glimpse behind the scenes.

He said: "The corset, underwear, all of that vibe, I just feel like I went through this transition from being a rapper, looking at all these girls, and then looking at my wife like, 'Oh, my girl needs to be just like these other girls, showing her body off, showing this, showing that.'"

Ye continued: "I didn't realise that that was affecting my soul and my spirit as someone that's married and loved, the father of what's about to be four kids.

"A corset is a form of underwear. It's hot. It's like, it's hot for who though?"

Kim had reportedly been planning her Met Gala ensemble for eleven months, and her husbands comments gave her anxiety.

In the episode she said:"You knew last night that I was having really bad anxiety, and I don't need any more negative energy for you to now say that you're not into me wearing a tight dress."

To which Kanye then responded: "You are my wife, and it affects me when pictures are too sexy."

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.