Khloe Kardashian reveals weight loss in a before and after snap after discovering love rat Tristan Thompson fathered another woman's child.

The 37-year-old showed her progress with her 219million followers on Instagram.

"About 3 months apart," the reality TV star captioned her images.

"'Let's go @coachjoe.paris we are sculpting my back and arms," she added, tagging her personal trainer Joël Bouraïma.

In both snaps she is wearing a sports bra and high-waisted leggings and in both before and after, Khloe looks incredible.

In her after picture however, her muscles are more defined and her arms look stronger.

Fans have been noticing Khloe's transforming body over the last few months, and while some branded her an "inspiration", others reassured her that she was beautiful the way she was.

One wrote: "'Khloe you were always perfect for my eyes. With or without gym i admire you since i was 7 years old and you are such a beautiful soul."

Another wrote: "literal goals I cannot cope I would honestly buy her back."

"Wow… yoooo you look incredible. Inspired seriously- lemme go get my life (and my back & arms) together. Lol", echoed another.

While another said: "Look better before."

Khloe also shared a snap of her flaunting her very slim half naked bod wearing nothing but a pair of her own Good American light blue Mom jeans.

She captioned the image: "WE ARE DENIM. Every size, every rise, every wash to serve your curves @goodamerican.

Again, the photo prompted a mixed reaction - with some fans praising her for her looks, while others showed concern.

"Wow that break up bod is next level," one wrote and added a trio of fire emojis.

"This is not Khloe," one wrote with a crying emoji.

Another wrote: "No sis. Stop whatever your doing !!!!!!!!!!!!!

Perhaps one of the most important comments in the section was: "Be nice please, y’all k ow she’s going through a lot, we ALL ARE!! It costs nothing to be nice !!!"

Khloe's transformation comes after her ex boyfriend Tristan Thompson admitted that he had fathered a child with another woman when the pair of them were together.

The 30-year-old basketball player who shares True, three, with Khloe, was caught out by a paternity test after Maralee Nichols claimed she fell pregnant after the two of them had an affair.

"Today, paternity test results reveal that I fathered a child with Maralee Nichols. I take full responsibility for my actions. Now that paternity has been established I look forward to amicably raising our son."

A source revealed: "Khloe is really hurt and saddened by Tristan's actions and his public apology isn't helping. This has been a tough pill for her to swallow and she does feel unsettled and pretty crushed."

Khloe and sports star Tristan have had an on and off relationship since 2016 and the couple were due to move in together - before Tristan was caught out for cheating.

Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here .

The insider told Entertainment Tonight: "Khloe and Tristan were in a good place before the news about Maralee being pregnant came out and had plans to move in together."

Tristan has since apologised to Khloe, and said that she "didn't deserve" how he had treated her.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.