The Masked Singer UK fans think they have finally solved who Traffic Cone really is, ahead of the semi-final this weekend.

After weeks of speculation over the celebrity under the mask, many viewers have completed a U-turn over their guesses - as others stand firm by their options.

Aled Jones is now tipped to be unmasked as Traffic Cone either this weekend or the following weekend.

While many fans have predicted him for weeks, some soon swapped him as their choice for others including Rob Brydon, Bradley Walsh and Alexander Armstrong.

But as the final edges closer, the latest clues have left many convinced it's definitely Aled.

From his vocals to comments about "believing", the latest clues have led many to guess Aled - even if they initially believed it was someone else.

Taking to Twitter, viewers again shared their guesses over who it might be, and there was a sudden surge of people naming Aled as Traffic Cone.

One fan commented: "Aled Jones is 100% Traffic Cone, he had an album with believe in the title."

Another agreed: "#trafficcone is Aled Jones. It has to be #MaskedSingerUK."

A third added: "Watching #maskedsinger a little behind, #trafficcone is surely Aled Jones?" as a fourth wrote: "Traffic cone is @realale #MaskedSinger it’s obvious."

The comments kept on coming too, with another tweet reading: "I definitely think that @realaled Aled Jones is Traffic cone. I would know that beautiful voice anywhere. I’m sure???!!"

A sixth viewer commented: "I think traffic cone is aled jones because he did a song called believe."

Singer Russell Watson "exposed" Traffic Cone as his pal Aled last month, as he denied claims he himself was under the costume.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain in January, he claimed Aled was definitely Traffic Cone, as he recognised his vocals.

As the hosts questioned if it was actually him behind the mask, he told them: "I 100 per cent know who that is.

"No, no, no. I know who that is, the strange thing is I didn't know who it was when I saw their first performance.

"I had no idea who it was and then I heard the second performance and I know who that is, I am absolutely certain.

"They've not admitted it, they've not mentioned it at all, but I am convinced that is my mate Aled Jones."

Adil Ray suggested the voice was too deep for it to be Aled, adding: "Come on Russell, that's a distraction, come on."

But Russell laughed it off, again claiming it was Aled and not him on the ITV show as the interview ended.

The Masked Singer UK continues at 7pm on ITV on Saturday.