Emmerdale’s Jai Sharma is headed for a reckoning in next week’s episodes of the soap, as his life begins to unravel.

ITV spoilers reveal that Jai ( Chris Bisson ) faces homelessness as Kim (Claire King) plans to oust them from their home to sell it.

Laurel (Charlotte Bellamy) is left distraught by the news - as Jai begins to plot a route out of the mess - setting off a distressing chain of events which culminate in his father Rishi ( Bhasker Patel ) collapsing.

The dramatic scenes are set to air next week and are set in motion by the possible sale of Mulberry Cottage.

Gabby fumes when Kim tells her Jai deviously suggested she sell Brook Cottage instead of their own home, which would leave Bernice (Samantha Giles) homeless.

Jai and Laurel are soon trying to raise funds to buy the cottage outright from Kim - but Priya ( Fiona Wade ) is angered when Jai tells her and Rishi that they should sell Holdgate to raise money for him to buy Kim out.

Priya and Bernice both let rip to Jai, giving him an earful about his selfish and sneaky behaviour - but then all of a sudden Rishi collapses amidst the chaos.

As his father is rushed to hospital, will Jai finally consider the effects of his underhand behaviour?

In later scenes Laurel demands to know what’s gone on between Jai and Priya, forcing him to reveal that he wants to sell Holdgate.

Laurel suggests they instead reach out to the bank for a mortgage, but Jai tries to stall her as he knows they won’t qualify for a mortgage after he forged the loan application.

Yet when Laurel decides to ignore his advice and get the mortgage application in, she panics when the bank tells her there is a problem, with her credit score low as a result of the large loan she recently took out.

When Laurel confronts Jai with the financial news, he initially blusters and bluffs under the line of questioning.

But just as Laurel’s about to call the police to report the fraud, Jai knows his hand is forced and stops her to reveal he took out the loan.

Laurel drops her mobile and stares back at Jai in complete horror before she tells him to fix his life.

Although she still loves Jai, she can’t forgive him, and their relationship is thrown into turmoil, leaving Jai heartbroken.

Actor Chris Bisson opened up about the emotional storyline, saying of his character: "Obviously he’s devastated and Priya makes it clear to him that it’s probably a consequence of his actions.

"He’s absolutely guilt-ridden and mortified that his actions have had such a real consequence, because it’s all been about money and businesses up until this point, until someone’s life is actually affected and suddenly that brings it all home to him."

Emmerdale airs these scenes in episodes on ITV from Monday February 7 to Friday February 11.