Shia LaBeouf's wife Mia Goth is reportedly pregnant with their first child.

The 28-year-old actress was recently spotted flaunting her growing baby bump while out and about in Pasadena, California, according to PEOPLE.

Mia was seen wearing a long sleeve T-shirt and pair of leggings, which showed off the bottom of her belly.

She kept a low-key appearance by covering up her face with sunglasses during the outing.

The Mirror has contacted Shia's representative for a comment.

It will be the couple's first child together and the news comes after they recently got back together.

They were married from 2016 to 2018 before they split, but recently rekindled their romance.

At the time, a representative confirmed: "Shia and Mia have filed for divorce. The separation is amicable and all details pertaining to the divorce proceedings will remain private."

The pair, who have split multiple times since they first met in 2012, seem to have reconciled in 2020 after he was spotted wearing a wedding ring.

Meanwhile, Mia had on both a diamond ring and wedding ring, sparking speculation that they were giving things another shot.

The couple were later photographed arm-in-arm at Disneyland in June 2021.

Rumours of Mia being pregnant started swirling back in November.

The pair were noticed at Chuck E. Cheese, where TMZ initially reported Mia's "baby bump" was apparent and that she seemed to be "about four to five months along."

The pair first began dating in 2012, after meeting on the set of Nymphomaniac: Volume II.

They have had a rocky road to happiness, and were famously caught on camera in an explosive row in Germany in July in 2015.

Shia made headlines in recent months after his ex FKA twigs claimed it's a "miracle" she survived her relationship with the actor.

The actress and singer opened up in a revealing interview about the abuse she alleges she suffered at the hands of her ex-boyfriend, which he denies.

She was dating her Honey Boy co-star for nearly a year.

Twigs said: "It's a miracle I came out alive".

The star, whose real name is Tahliah Debrett Barnett, claims that Transformers star Shia used "calculated, systematic, tricky, and mazelike" tactics to control her throughout their time together.

Meanwhile, Shia added that many of the allegations brought against him "are not true".

Shia has said he's in recovery and therapy for alcoholism and PTSD, saying he "will forever be sorry to the people that I may have harmed along the way".