Love Island hunk Luke Trotman has debuted a dramatic new hair transformation after the reported split from Siannise Fudge last November, and fans are completely divided over his new look.

Updating his followers on Monday night, Luke posted a photo on Instagram of him standing in an elevator with bright pink hair and a matching funky jacket.

The star, who had dark hair when on Love Island, and then more recently platinum blonde, has now opted for an on-trend bubblegum pink look.

When the TV star posted the look on Instagram, fans couldn't make up their minds – with some obsessed with his fresh 'do and others confused.

One fan joked in the comments: "Love your new hair."

While someone else said: "Pink really suits you Luke, my favourite colour too."

While a fourth touched on Luke's recent breakup, saying: "Men can change their look after a break up too, don’t hate."

The 24-year-old ITV2 heartthrob broke up with his 27-year-old girlfriend Siannise in November 2021 – after two years of dating.

The pair met on the winter edition of Love Island, months before the pandemic hit in early 2020.

Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here.

Falling head over heels almost instantly, the pair were surefire favourites among fans and viewers of the show in an instant.

Capturing the hearts of the British public, the pair ended up finishing in second place, before jetting back to the UK to start their lives together.

The sweet couple were inseparable when they got back to the UK and even moved in with each other and got a dog, but things turned sour last year when rumours began to spiral.

Last November, the pair reportedly split after weeks of speculation, after a series of cryptic posts from Siannise were splashed on social media, which left fans questioning whether the pair were still together.

At the time, a source told The Sun that the duo made the decision to call time on their relationship.

With the source telling the publication: "It's been a really hard couple of weeks for both of them but it's over for now."

They made their last public appearance together on October 27, when they both attended the Eternals Premiere at the BFI IMAX, Waterloo.

Not much has been said about the split, but last month Siannise shared a glimpse of her new London pad last month after moving out of the home she shared with Luke.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.