A devastated brother has told how his sister "died in his arms" after she was stabbed to death in the street.

Marina Shaban, 41, suffered "multiple stab wounds" at the entrance of a block of flats on Bordesley Green, West Midlands Police said.

Her brother Kasim discovered the mum-of-four near his home after 7am on January 28, and said she took her last breath in his arms.

Police have not made any arrests.

Kasim, 25, said the family are desperate for police to bring whoever was responsible to justice.

He told BirminghamLive : "Within a matter of seconds she was walking from one block to another block when she was brutally attacked.

"It happened before I got to her. She was in my arms. I think I felt her heart beating. I think she took her last breath with me.”

He added: "I heard there was banging outside. Two people banging my next door neighbour’s door and they come banging on my door saying: ‘Your sister, your sister.’

“I’d gone out, panicking, opened the door, and she was there and not responding. She wasn't able to say who it was or what happened."

Paying tribute, he added: "We were really close. I can’t put it into words. She was my only sister.

“She was a great mum and an amazing auntie.”

She said: “A loving, caring and dedicated mother with a fantastic personality and real zest for life was tragically taken from us before her time.

“She leaves behind four children and a huge family who loved, admired and cared for her deeply.

“The entire family are absolutely devastated by her death and ask that we are given space to grieve, however, urge anyone with information to please come forward.”

Police say they are reviewing CCTV and talking to witnesses, and continue to appeal for any information or anyone who witnessed anything suspicious in the area to come forward.

Updating the police investigation, a force spokesperson said: "A post-mortem examination has revealed Marina died as a result of multiple stab wounds.

"Our enquiries into who was responsible for her death continue and we're continuing to appeal for information.

"We've kept Marina's family updated and are offering them specialist support during this deeply distressing time."

Police officers made door-to-door inquiries and offered reassurance with residents at North Holme earlier today.

Anyone with information can contact us via Live Chat on our website or by calling 101. Please quote log 3492 of 28/01/22.