A man dressed in a creepy costume from the TV series Squid Game left onlookers stunned as he walked through a city centre.

The fan was spotted in several different parts of Coventry, leaving locals confused about why he was wearing the red and black outfit.

One theory is that he was on a stag do in the city and decided to dress up as one of the henchmen from the wildly popular Netflix thriller.

Jaz Padam said he saw the man walking into the city centre while driving his car, CoventryLive reports.

He said: "He was walking towards town. I'd just drove past him, then took a picture as I was getting out of the car.

Get all the latest news sent to your inbox. Sign up for the free Mirror newsletter

"I actually thought it was from the kids game Among Us, because I used to play with my children.

"Then it clicked it was from Squid Game. As he was heading towards the city centre I just thought he was probably heading to a stag do or something."

The stag do theory would make sense, as dressing as comical or current characters is often part of the culture, but one or two things possibly rule it out.

Firstly, the individual was alone, and were he on a stag you might expect him to be with others in similar attire.

Secondly, CoventryLive understands someone dressed in the same outfit has been spotted several times around the city on different days.

For the uninitiated, Squid Game is a fictional drama series which sees contestants play a host of children's games in an attempt to be the overall winner and scoop a huge prize - but those who don't win, die.

It was released in September and quickly become wildly popular, particularly on social media where it created a huge amount of memes and gifs.

It became so ingrained in culture children have been known to play Squid Game on school playgrounds during breaks.

The red outfit the individual seen in Coventry is wearing is that of Squid Game 'guards' also known as Pink Soldiers or Masked Men, according to Squid-Game.fandom.com.

The sighting comes after a man wearing a creepy clown costume was seen walking the streets of Speke, Merseyside, at night.

The man was seen crouching behind bushes outside homes while dressed in the frightening costume which was complete with an oversized mask.

A witness snapped a photo of the clown, the Liverpool Echo reported.

His costume was made up of a black and white clown suit with a white neck ruff and a garish mask that featured a bright red nose, purple hair and giant teeth.

A witness shared photos of the man crouched behind a bush and gesturing with his hand.

The witness said: "It's that's time of the year again.

"I've been out and about in Speke and I saw the clown out and about around Ganworth Road area."