A man who was married to his wife for ten years “lost control” during an argument and started headbutting her face.

Graham Collie, 55, admitted at Paisley Sheriff Court that he headbutted his wife Alison on November 20 last year in their property in Renfrew’s Dakota Way

Procurator fiscal depute Caitlin O’Hare told the court the couple had been married for ten years, and at the time of the assault had been living together.

She explained: “Around 11.30am on Saturday, November 20, the witness Ms Collie and the accused had an argument during which he lost self control and began headbutting his wife to the bridge of her nose.

“Ms Collie contacted police who attended at the Renfrew property.

“Police noted a fresh injury to Ms Collie’s nose and swelling to her left eye.

“Officers spoke with the complainer and she advised she did not wish for an ambulance to attend.

“Police left and returned on Monday, November 22, and noted the complainer had extensive bruising and swelling on her left eye.

Don't miss the latest headlines from around Renfrewshire. Sign up to our newsletters here.

“On the same date, around 10.30am, the accused attended at Saltcoats police office and he was arrested.

“He was interviewed and later cautioned and charged.

“The accused was then released on an undertaking to appear at Paisley Sheriff Court.”

Defence agent Anthony Callaghan reserved defence comments as Sheriff Kooner indicated background reports would be necessary in this case.

Sheriff Lindsay Kooner said: “Because of the nature of the charge, I’m going to obtain a background report.”

Sentence was deferred until March 1 for the preparation of a criminal justice social work report.

The Crown will also consider a non-harassment order on that date.

Collie, who now lives in West Kilbride was reminded by Sheriff Kooner that he remains subject to his bail order in the meantime.

Download the FREE Renfrewshire Live app now for all the latest news, features and sport: smarturl.it/RenfrewLiveSocial