NHS Lanarkshire is offering a free programme targeted to help residents with weight management.

‘Weigh to Go’ has been launched by the health board to support people with weight management through offering nutritional and physical advice.

The programme is for adults and is running both online and onsite across leisure centres in South and North Lanarkshire.

The Lanarkshire Live app is available to download now. Get all the news from your area – as well as features, entertainment, sport and the latest on Lanarkshire’s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic – straight to your fingertips, 24/7. The free download features the latest breaking news and exclusive stories, and allows you to customise your page to the sections that matter most to you. Head to the App Store and never miss a beat in Lanarkshire - iOS - Android

The onsite classes will take place in eight different leisure venues in South Lanarkshire across the week.

The instructor-led classes include a 45-minute healthy eating and lifestyle interactive chat followed by 45 minutes of a low impact exercise class.

The programme incorporates both a physical activity and educational element which is tailored to suit all fitness levels and is open to anyone who wishes to join at no financial cost.

Leisure centres and classes include: Blantyre Leisure Centre (Monday 1pm to 2.30pm), Carluke Leisure Centre (Tuesday 6pm to 7.30pm), Dollan Aqua Centre (Wednesday 2.30pm to 4pm), Eastfield Lifestyles (Thursday 5pm to 6.30pm and Sunday 12pm to 1.30pm), Fairhill Lifestyles (Friday 12.30pm to 2pm), Lanark Lifestyles (Tuesday 11.30am to 1pm) and Larkhall Leisure Centre (Tuesday 1.30pm to 3pm).

The online part of the programme runs every Thursday at 6.30pm.

Being active and eating a balanced diet is not only important for physical health but it also helps with emotional and mental health.

NHS Lanarkshire offers a range of support to help people with their physical and mental wellbeing, more programmes are available here.

*Don't miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters here.

And did you know Lanarkshire Live is on Facebook? Head on over and give us a like and share!