A teen student whose body was found in a bath full of acid married the man charged with murdering her just weeks before the tragedy, according to reports.

Aminah Hayat, 19, was left dissolving in the tub of corrosive liquid for roughly 24 hours in the flat she shared with boyfriend and suspected killer Meraj Zafar in Sydney, Australia.

According to the Mirror, authorities estimate that the aspiring surgeon was killed between 12pm and 5pm on Saturday, the day before they rammed the door of the property and discovered the sickening scene.

Hayat, a Bangladeshi national, allegedly moved in with partner Zafar six months ago before the pair tie the knot just weeks before her death, Daily Mail Australia reports.

In images taken from social media, the pair are seen holding each other in a loving embrace.

Hayat's heartbroken parents, who were reportedly unhappy with their plans to wed, said their daughter cut off all contact with them after she moved in with Zafar, according to the Daily Mail.

In an emotional interview with 7News, her dad Abu Hayat said: "I love my daughter. I want my daughter (back)."

Police initially launched a manhunt after Zafar was spotted fleeing the scene in his truck.

However he handed himself in to cops yesterday and was charged with the young woman's murder.

Speaking on behalf of the suspected killer today, his lawyer Mohamad Sakr said he has been left "distraught" by his first night locked up behind bars.

Local residents said Zafar told neighbours he was from Pakistan but that he spoke English very well.

Ali Safari, who lives next door, said Hayat was often "smiling" and came across as "pleasant" whenever they saw each other.

He told the Daily Mail: 'She was always playing music. She was quiet, I never spoke with her.'

Zafar's lawyer refused to comment on a number of questions, including whether the victim was married to his client or whether they were just boyfriend and girlfriend.

He said: "He is someone who is in a relationship with her'.

Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here.