Lanarkshire residents have complained over the precariousness of a "very dangerous" lamppost left damaged in a car crash.

The structure is seen leaning between the path and road between Clem Attlee Gardens and Machan Road in Larkhall.

Locals say the damage is huge safety concern to children as many pupils use this road to access Larkhall Academy.

Police were called to the crash on January 16 where an Audi had struck the lamppost, however the driver was nowhere to be seen when officers arrived.

The site shows a pile of rubble at the bottom of the lamppost with a large dent at the bottom of the pole.

Pieces of tarmac also appear to be cracked and broken, and wires can now be seen towards the ground.

Police Scotland confirmed that the crash occurred with Lanarkshire Live, explaining that officers were called to Clem Attlee Gardens in Larkhall at around 2.35am.

A spokeswoman from the force added: "An Audi struck a lamppost and no one was in the car when police attended.

However, over two weeks have passed with the structure leaning dangerously in the public area, and residents have already contacted their local councillor to have it removed or repaired as they raise their concerns.

William McLean reported the damaged lamppost to Larkhall councillor Jackie Burns who said the matter will be investigated.

Concerned William told us: "It needs to come down as quick as it can.

"I feel like Larkhall is being forgotten about, I think what worries me about it is that someone will come along and vandalise and it falls down or it eventually it does fall down in bad weather.

"I am not quite sure, but I know with the pandemic things have been difficult, it would be good if they could deal with these more urgently.

"A lot of other people seem scared by it. It's very dangerous."

One local also worried about the hazardous lamppost said: "I drive past this everyday and it gives me the fear."

While another added: "I'm always slightly wary walking past it. I know it must be safe but it doesn't look it."

A third remarked: "There was a crash here about a week and a half ago don't no why its not been sorted."

A South Lanarkshire Council spokesperson told Lanarkshire Live: "We were aware of this incident which resulted in damage to the street lighting column.

"Our out of hours crew attended on the night of the incident and noted that the column, although struck, was in a safe condition and was not in danger of collapse.

"The damaged column was replaced earlier today (Tuesday, February 1) and we will complete the footway reinstatement at the base of the column this week."

*Don't miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters .

And did you know is on Facebook? Why not head to and give us a like and share.