Dumbarton Football Club has said that fans who set off pyrotechnics and smashed a bus window during the Sons’ Scottish Cup defeat to Dundee have no place at the club.

The fiery Scottish Cup clash on Saturday, January 22 ended in a 1-0 victory thanks to Leigh Griffiths’ penalty, but was marred by pyrotechnics during the game and the smashing of a Dundee supporters’ bus window as it left the Rock.

A statement on the Sons’ website said: “Dumbarton FC wishes to place on record its sincere thanks to supporters who attended the Rock for our Scottish Cup tie against Dundee.

“The attendance of 1198 was our first four-figure home crowd since July 2019, and we very much appreciate the efforts by fans of both clubs.

“However, we also wish to address a couple of incidents which took place at the game, and which have been raised on social media and in the local press.

“These are the use of pyrotechnics in the stand, and an incident following the match in which the window of a Dundee supporters’ bus was broken.

“Neither of these incidents is remotely acceptable at Dumbarton FC. We are striving to make the club a safe and welcoming environment for all football fans without exception, and a place where football fans in our community want to spend their Saturday afternoon.

“It is putting it somewhat mildly to say that the above incidents are a setback to those aspirations, and the perpetrators have no place at Dumbarton FC.

“We would like to apologise to anybody who was adversely affected by the perpetrators’ actions in any way, and hope that you are not put off attending matches in future.

“We are, though, pleased to say that the vast majority of supporters contributed to what was in general an excellent atmosphere at Saturday’s match.

“It is very much our hope that we will see those supporters who contributed the right way in the home end for future games.”

A Police Scotland spokeswoman said enquires into the incident are ongoing.

She added: “Around 6.50pm on Saturday, January 22 a report was made to police regarding a vandalism to a supporters’ bus near to Castle Road, Dumbarton.

“No one was injured and enquiries into the incident are continuing.”