Kate Middleton has one very strict rule that all staff must obey if they want to work for her family.

As senior working royals, it's no surprise to fans that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge rely on staff to keep things running smoothly in their home, and naturally they have extremely high standards when hiring.

However, anyone who dreams of working inside Prince William and Kate's home must obey the couples zero-tolerance for gossiping to keep their job.

A job advert posted on the Royal Household’s official website, described a housekeeping role as an 'exciting opportunity' to work for the royal couple and to 'join a supportive and positive team'.

Staff members have to be trusted by the couple as they specify that applicants have to be good at "maintaining confidentiality and exercising discretion".

The ad read: "You will be a self-starter who also enjoys working collaboratively.

"You will be keen to take on new challenges as these arise and develop your own knowledge and skills.”

However, anyone who wants to apply to be a housekeeper for the Queen has to pass a secret test first.

According to Tracey Waterman, the head of recruitment, the team sets a secret challenge to all interviewees to see how they react - and those that pass, get the job.

She explains that she will place a dead fly somewhere around the room to see if the candidate notices it and how they dispose of it.

Speaking during Channel 5's documentary Sandringham: The Royals at Christmas, she said: "The difference between a housekeeper in a five-star hotel and in a royal Palace would be attention to detail.

"One of the tests I like to do, to see if a candidate has a potential eye for detail, is to place a dead fly, either in the fireplace or on the carpet.

"Once the dead fly is placed, I then bring the candidate into the room.

"I lead them into the room quite slowly, just giving them a chance to glance at the room, have a little look at what we’ve got inside the room.

"Bringing them to the fireplace, maybe highlighting that we’ve got a beautiful fireplace."

It’s this hint that Tracey hopes will make them aware of the dead fly but it’s not just about spotting the fly she says but what they do if they do notice it.

She adds: "It’s a great test, maybe out of 10 people half the candidates will notice the fly. One out of ten will actually bend down and pick it up, that’s the special housekeeper."

Get the latest celebrity gossip and telly news sent straight to your inbox. Sign up to our weekly Showbiz newsletter here .