Recently-fired Miami Dolphins head coach Brian Flores filed an explosive Manhattan Federal Court lawsuit Tuesday against the NFL, with the Black plaintiff alleging the league “remains rife with racism” and pays little more than lip service to its oft-stated goal of coaching diversity.

The 58-page class action filing names the NFL and all 32 of its franchises, demanding a jury trial to resolve the allegations leveled less than a month after Flores was fired by the Dolphins despite posting a winning record in the last two seasons.

The coach, dismissed on Jan. 10, also blasts the league’s “Rooney Rule” to increase the number of minority coaches as a horribly failed effort at sideline diversity. With Flores’ firing, Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin remains the NFL’s only Black head coach.

“In certain critical ways, the NFL is racially segregated and is managed much like a plantation,” the lawsuit charged. “Its 32 owners — none of whom are black — profit substantially from the labor of NFL players, 70% of whom are black.

“The racial discrimination has only been made worse by the NFL’s disingenuous commitment to social equity.”

The 40-year-old Flores, a Brooklyn native who posted a 19-14 record in his last two years in Miami, was widely considered one of the league’s top young coaches before his sudden firing.

The lawsuit quoted a text chat between Flores, who was one of the candidates for the New York Giants opening filled by white head coach Brian Daboll, and New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick.

In the exchange, Belichick initially congratulates Flores for landing the job to replace fired head coach Joe Judge ― although the New England coach apparently thought he was chatting with Daboll in the days before the hiring became public.

“Sorry … I double-checked & misread the text,” wrote Belichick. “I think they are naming Daboll. I’m sorry about that. BB.”

Flores, in a statement, said the need for dramatic change in the sport outweighed his goal of winning a Super Bowl.

“I understand that I may be risking coaching the game that I love and that has done so much for my family and me,” he said. “My sincere hope is that by standing up against systemic racism in the NFL, others will join me to ensure that positive change is made for generations to come.”

Flores additionally charged the Giants brought him in for a sitdown anyway this year after deciding on Daboll, and alleged the Denver Broncos invited him to a 2019 interview purely to meet the “Rooney Rule” requirement — with GM John \ appearing late and hungover.

The Broncos instead hired Vic Fangio, a white head coach fired after posting a 19-30 record over three years in Denver.

“Mr. Flores was not only denied the head coach position of the New York Giants but was humiliated in the process as (the team) subjected him to a sham interview in an attempt to appear to provide a black candidate with a legitimate chance at obtaining the job,” court papers charged.

The NFL, in a statement, promised to defend “against these claims, which are without merit … Diversity is core to everything we do, and there are few issues on which our clubs and our internal leadership team spend more time.”

The Broncos called Flores’ allegations “blatantly false.” The Giants responded with a statement defending their choice for head coach and the process that led to his hiring.

“We interviewed an impressive and diverse group of candidates,” said the Giants. “The fact of the matter is, Brian Flores was in the conversation to be our head coach until the eleventh hour. Ultimately, we hired the individual we felt was most qualified to be our next head coach.”

Flores started his career with New England back in 2004 at the age of 23, and eventually became the defensive play caller for the Patriots team that defeated the L.A. Rams 10-3 in the 2019 Super Bowl before taking the Miami job.

Once there, he alleged, owner Stephen Ross offered him a $1,000 per game bonus for every loss in hopes of tanking for a higher pick in the 2020 draft. The lawsuit added that Flores was left to deal with the “angry Black man stigma” that accompanied his desire to win.

The lawsuit pointedly noted there was now just a single Black head coach in the entire league and a dearth of minorities in other high-level staff jobs like offensive coordinator, defensive coordinator and quarterback coach.

“This is not by chance,” the lawsuit charged. “Rather, the statistics … described through this complaint are the result of racial discrimination.”

The lengthy court documents raised the NFL’s exile of San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, alleging he was blackballed after taking a knee during the “Star-Spangled Banner.”

The suit also referenced the recent scandal where Las Vegas Raiders coach Jon Gruden was fired after email messages where he made racist and homophobic remarks were made public. Though the statements dated to 2011, the coach was only dismissed last season.

In one of his comments, Gruden described DeMaurice Smith, a Black man and the the NFL Players’ Association Executive Director, as having “lips the size of Michelin tires.”