The Colorado Avalanche are back to rolling over the rest of the National Hockey League, and there’s no reason for the run to stop now. Colorado welcomes the Arizona Coyotes to town on Tuesday night, and this game looks like an absolute mismatch on paper.

Arizona enters this matchup with just 24 points on the year, and it’s almost hard to lose as much as the Coyotes have. This team’s now competing for the number one overall draft pick, and losses are actually celebrated by this franchise.

Colorado now has 67 points on the year, and they’re back on top of the rugged Central Division. The Avalanche look like the best team in the league yet again, and they’re only getting better as the season moves along.

The Avalanche are massive moneyline betting favorites in this game at -600.

The biggest reason for the struggles of the Coyotes has been the lack of offense all season long. Arizona is averaging just 2.19 goals per game, and that’s a slow period for a team like the Avalanche.

Not only is Arizona struggling to put pucks in the back of the net, but this team is also allowing 3.70 goals per game. Arizona has allowed 22 total goals over the last five games, which could spell some real trouble in this matchup.

The Coyotes don’t really prove much of a threat on the power play, as they’ve only scored 13 percent of the time. When Arizona does commit a penalty, they’re killing off just 71.9 percent of their own miscues.

A quick look at the most important stats shows why Arizona has been so bad this season.

It took a while for the Avalanche to get going, but they’re now clicking on all cylinders. Colorado has now won 10 games overall, and they’ve also won 18 straight games at home.

The Avalanche are averaging more than four goals per game, and they’ve got so many offensive weapons on the ice. Colorado will give up some goals, but they’re able to get those goals back in a hurry.

Nazem Kadri has been the clear leader for Avs this season as he’s racked up 41 assists and 59 total points. Darcy Kuemper has started to become a shutdown goaltender and he’s put up a 21-5-1 record this season.

The Avalanche aren’t just beating teams, they’re blowing opponents out with regularity.

Not only will this game provide some full-game betting opportunities, but you should also look at making some prop betting picks for this game. You’re going to find some prop betting options for both teams, but all eyes should be on the Avalanche at this time.

With the lack of defense coming from Arizona, this should be a huge game for the Avalanche on the offensive end of the ice. When looking at prop betting options you’ll want to take a look at points and shots for the Avalanche because they’re going to be in attack mode on Tuesday night.

The over/under for points with Nazem Kadri is set at 1.5, and it feels like the over (+118) is a pretty safe pick in this game. Doubling that pick by taking over 1.5 shots taken by Kadri (-142) can lead to a pretty solid payday.

Another interesting prop betting option in this game is taking the Avalanche to win the first period. That line is set at just 0.5 (-130)

and it seems pretty clear Colorado will take control of this game right from the jump.

It’s not worth your time to even think about betting the moneyline in this game, but you’re going to want to side with the Avalanche. Take Colorado -2.5 if you can, as it seems pretty likely they win this game by at least three goals on Tuesday night over the struggling Coyotes.

This article was provided by Betting.com, a betting community website where you can find the latest promo codes, sportsbook bonuses, expert predictions, and betting picks on all major leagues in the United States and beyond. You’ll also be able to compare odds between different betting sites, have access to high-tech betting calculators, and sports stats to help you place winning bets.

Gambling involves risk. Please only gamble with funds that you can comfortably afford to lose. Whilst we do our utmost to offer good advice and information we cannot be held responsible for any loss that may be incurred as a result of gambling. We do our best to make sure all the information that we provide on this site is correct. However, from time to time mistakes will be made and we will not be held liable. Please check any stats or information if you are unsure how accurate they are.

The news and editorial staffs of The Denver Post had no role in this post’s preparation.

This sponsored content article is governed by our Online Gambling Content Disclaimer (the “Disclaimer”) available here (or at the following URL: https://www.denverpost.com/online-gambling-content-disclaimer), and this sponsored content article constitutes “Gaming Content” as that term is defined in the Disclaimer. Among other things, the Disclaimer governs your access to, and use of, this Gaming Content. By accessing and using this Gaming Content, you expressly agree to the terms and conditions of the Disclaimer. The entire Disclaimer is incorporated herein by this reference. We strongly encourage you to please read the entire Disclaimer carefully.