A decision that became inevitable more than two years ago amidst sibling strife in the Bowlen family became reality Tuesday when the Broncos announced the team is up for sale.

Thirty-eight years after Pat Bowlen and his two brothers and one sister bought a majority interest in the team for $78 million, the Broncos are expected to easily break the current record sale price of $2.35 billion for a U.S. professional sports team set by the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets.

President/CEO Joe Ellis, one of three trustees designated by Bowlen to run the Broncos’ day-to-day operations 7 1/2 years ago, informed The Pat Bowlen Trust’s seven beneficiaries of the official decision during a conference call.

“The Broncos are a special franchise that is part of the fabric of this region and whoever emerges as the new owner will certainly understand what the team means to our great fans and the community,” Ellis said in a statement.

The record sale price for an NFL franchise is $2.275 billion for the Carolina Panthers. The Broncos’ final price could reach $4 billion.

Under Bowlen, the Broncos won three of their Super Bowl appearances, 13 AFC West titles and had 21 winning seasons. He retired from day-to-day Broncos business in July 2014 and died of Alzheimer’s in June 2019.

“When Pat Bowlen purchased the Denver Broncos in 1984 … he set out with the goal of being No. 1 in everything,” the Bowlen family said in a statement. “Over the past 38 seasons, his vision enabled the Broncos to become champions on and off the field.”

The trustees — Ellis, team counsel Rich Slivka and local attorney Mary Kelly — have hired Steve Greenberg of Allen & Co., as their financial advisor and Joe Leccese of Proskauer Rose LLP as their legal advisor.

Allen & Co., has previously worked as an advisor for the New York Mets, Facebook, Time Warner Cable and AOL during acquisitions and mergers. Notable alumni of Proskauer Rose include the late NBA commissioner David Stern and current NHL commissioner Gary Bettman.

The role of Allen & Co., is vetting all prospective buyers and to insulate the trustees from having direct contact with buyers.

“Selling an NFL team is a complex process involving numerous parties and league approval procedures,” Ellis said. “Nonetheless, the trustees hope to have the sale completed by the start of the 2022 NFL season.”

Once selected by the trustees, a prospective owner must meet with the NFL’s Finance Committee. If they approve the candidacy, it moves onto to the ownership group and 24 teams must vote “yes” for approval.

The timetable isn’t set by the trustees or their advisors, a sports industry source said in a phone interview with The Denver Post. Instead, the calendar is based on how quickly the buyers emerge.

It is expected that each potential buyer will sign a non-disclosure agreement once they officially express interest, which prohibits them from publicly revealing details of the process and who has or hasn’t placed a bid.

The trustees, whose fiduciary responsibilities are to the beneficiaries (two daughters from Bowlen’s marriage to Sally Parker and two sons and three daughters with his widow, Annabel), are expected to accept the highest bid. The format is expected to be auction-style.

The trustees will be the ultimate decision-makers on which prospective buyer will be selected and they are expected to be in daily contact with their financial and legal advisors to answer and ask questions throughout the process.

Two key NFL rules during the sale process: A majority owner must purchase at least 30% of the club and they can’t bring in more than 24 partial-share investors.

The sports industry source, based on previous NFL team sales, said the Broncos’ new owner will likely own 100% of the club or close to it. The Panthers (David Tepper), Miami Dolphins (Stephen Ross) and Buffalo Bills (Terry and Kim Pegula) were all 100% purchases.

The new owner will be the fifth in Broncos history, following Bob Howsam (1960), Gerald Phipps and Cal Kunz (1961-80), Edgar Kaiser (1981-84) and Bowlen (1984-present). Last August, Forbes valued the Broncos at $3.75 billion, 10th in the NFL and 25th in the world among sports franchises.

In 2018, two of Bowlen’s daughters went public with their desire to replace their father as controlling owner.

Beth Bowlen Wallace, the second of Pat’s two children with Parker, had her request quickly denied by the trustees. Four months later, Brittany Bowlen, one of Pat’s five children with Annabel, said she wanted to succeed her father. Brittany eventually joined the Broncos in December 2019 at a vice-president level and she was promoted to her current post of senior vice president of strategy.

Brittany Bowlen was the trustees’ preferred choice to replace Pat, but on Dec. 30, 2019, Ellis said unanimous family support for Brittany “may not be a requirement, but it’s going to be necessary moving forward.” The Broncos, Ellis said, would ultimately be sold if that wasn’t achieved.

The path to putting the team up for sale was delayed by two lawsuits.

In September 2019, Wallace and older sister Amie Klemmer filed a petition seeking to invalidate the 2009 Patrick D. Bowlen Trust on the grounds their father did not have the capacity to sign his estate-planning documents and the trustees had unduly influenced him. A July 2021 trial date was vacated and the lawsuit was dismissed at the request of Giovanni Ruscitti, the lawyer for Wallace and Klemmer, when both sides stated the estate-planning documents were, “valid, enforceable and reflect Patrick D. Bowlen’s intent and will.”

And on Jan. 11, in Denver’s Second District Court, a judge ruled Kaiser’s right of first refusal provision was not transferrable or enforceable. The Broncos succeeded in saying the right of first refusal disappeared upon Kaiser’s death in 2012 and Bowlen’s death seven years later.

In their statement, the Bowlen family said: “Our family is eternally grateful for the coaches, support staff and team employees for all of their contributions. … Pat used to say the Broncos belonged to the fans that, ultimately, this was their team. From the bottom of our hearts, thank you for this incredible ride. It has been the honor of our lifetime.”