(Natural News) A Canadian trucker who helped organize the “Truckers For Freedom 2022” rally involving a convoy of trucks and other vehicles nearly 50 miles long said on Friday that he and other drivers are being electronically tracked by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s administration.

What’s more, the driver told Fox News’ Tucker Carlson that Trudeau is pressuring President Joe Biden’s regime to do the same for American drivers, suggesting that both governments could then be “trading intelligence” on citizens in ways that will lead to more widespread electronic surveillance in the future.

In introducing the segment, Carlson played a video clip of Trudeau dismissing the massive truck-borne protest movement as nothing more than a “fringe” Canadian element before bringing in driver Benjamin Dichter, a spokesman for the group who addressed Trudeau’s increasingly oppressive COVID mandates.

“We’ve seen Canada go from a country of Justin Trudeau’s promises of sunny ways into dark authoritarian oppression and control,” he said, as Carlson nodded in agreement.

take our poll - story continues below

“We want two things: We wanna get rid of the vaccine mandates and the [electronic] passports,” he continued before describing his recent experience with the latter during a border crossing into the country from the U.S.

“The passports…that’s a really concerning one,” Dichter continued, explaining that the day before was his first time crossing into Canada in his truck with his digital passport (on his phone) since the vax mandate began.

“I held my phone up to the border agent to give him the QR code — you know what he said to me? ‘Oh, it’s okay, I don’t need it.’ I said, ‘What do you mean you don’t need it?’ He said, ‘Oh, your … phone already popped up on my screen and is correlated with your passport,” the Canadian driver continued.

“Think of that. So they know everybody who’s coming up to the border before they’re there and they’re tracking them. Now, maybe it’s outlandish, but what’s to prevent the government from introducing that across Canada and not limiting it to just borders?” he said.

“And you guys (meaning the United States) are getting it as well and you can thank us for it,” Dichter added.

He went on to cite sources within the media and within government who have spoken to him and other drivers, saying that while the Biden administration initially “had no interest” in a scheme to electronically track drivers, Trudeau’s government “lobbied and requested the Biden administration to introduce this.”

“We don’t know why, we don’t know the terms of the deal. Are they gonna be trading intelligence back and forth between Canada and the U.S. tracking cellphones?” he continued. “We have no idea. But this is where we’re going if this does not stop. That’s why this is the line. This is where it ends.”

In response to a question from Tucker about why figuring all of this out fell to truckers and not to ‘the educated elite’ who run the country, Dichter explained it’s because regular blue-collar workers like him are left to deal with the consequences of bad policy.

He then recounted how he had spent a lot of time in Latin America and that even before the COVID pandemic, large swaths of Alberta and Saskatchewan “look like a third-world country” after liberal Canadian policymakers have left the region’s once-thriving energy sector in ruins, in pursuit of nonsensical “green energy” referendums.

“So now people who’ve had their industries crushed, their lives crushed, COVID comes along, and now they’re treated like insects by the bureaucracy,” Dichter declared.

There is a huge political and societal shift coming to Western democracies like the U.S. and Canada, whose people have been abused by moronic ‘elites’ making decisions for tens of millions of lives with consequences they themselves do not have to live with or suffer through.
• Labor Secretary backs away from enforcing covid jab mandate for truckers, realizing entire supply chain will collapse if truckers aren’t allowed to work
• Australian truckers planning major strike to protest authoritarian COVID lockdowns, advising citizens to stock up in advance

After two years I have regained my eyesight and I'm back. I have overcome my health issues thanks to prayers, perseverance and GOD! But my finances are in bad shape and I need help to get my children back (wife kicked me out). If you can help financially please click here. If money is tight, I'd still welcome prayers. Please.