I am going to try to make as much noise about this crisis as I can, because we have never faced anything like this in modern times. Global fertilizer prices have tripled, and we are being warned that this is going to have a catastrophic impact on food production all over the world. On Monday, an article that I wrote about this went viral all over the Internet. On Zero Hedge alone, my article has been viewed more than a quarter of a million times. The reason why the article is so popular is because the corporate media in the United States is largely ignoring this story. But it should be front page news all over the country, because this is going to affect every man, woman and child on the entire planet.

Some experts did warn us about this in advance. For example, a European CEO told the media the following all the way back in November…

Holsether says that a food crisis is coming because the cost to produce a ton of ammonia has gotten nearly ten times higher…

take our poll - story continues below Completing this poll grants you access to DC Clothesline updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to this site's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. In Europe, the natural-gas benchmark hit an all-time high in September, with the price more than tripling from June to October alone. Yara is a major producer of ammonia, a key ingredient in synthetic fertilizer, which increases crop yields. The process of creating ammonia currently relies on hydropower or natural gas. “To produce a ton of ammonia last summer was $110,” said Holsether. “And now it’s $1,000. So it’s just incredible.”

In order to fix this, we need to solve the global energy crisis.

Unfortunately, as I have been repeatedly warning my readers, the global energy crisis is only going to get worse.

So we have a really, really big mess on our hands.

In Africa, many farmers are not going to be able to afford fertilizer at all this year, and it is being projected that this will reduce production by enough “to feed 100 million people”…

To make sure that their people won’t starve, African governments will need to import massive amounts of food from elsewhere…

But agricultural production is going to be way down all over the globe.

So almost everyone is going to be looking to import food, and there won’t be a lot of exporters.

Many of you may not realize this, but the food crisis has already become quite severe in some parts of Africa…

How would you feel if your own children were eating plants and leaves just to survive?

Of course this is just the beginning. As I have warned for a very long time, we will soon get to a point where there is not nearly enough food for everybody.

What are we going to do then?

And if Russia and Ukraine go to war, that will take this crisis to a completely different level very rapidly…

But even without war, global food prices just keep going higher and higher and higher.

In fact, global grain prices have risen approximately 70 percent just since the middle of 2020…

Sadly, most people don’t even realize that this is happening, because the mainstream media is not really talking about it.

Eventually, however, everyone will be talking about this crisis because it is going to be a really, really big deal.

There is no way out, and global food supplies are going to get tighter and tighter.

I would act on this information while you still can. Unfortunately, the vast majority of the population is going to be absolutely blindsided by what is coming.

***It is finally here! Michael’s new book entitled “7 Year Apocalypse” is now available in paperback and for the Kindle on Amazon.***
• A Farming Insider Has Warned Me That The Coming Food Shortages Are Going To Be FAR WORSE Than We Are Being Told
• Nazi SS-Covid Police faced with justified backlash and standoff against women in Boston restaurant who had no vaccine passport and still ordered food for dining in
• Globalist corporations begin seizing farmland in America under eminent domain, to halt food production in the name of fighting climate change
• Global food corporations say weaponization of food system already well underway, “transition” to New World Order almost complete

About the Author: My name is Michael Snyder and my brand new book entitled “7 Year Apocalypse” is now available on Amazon.com. During this season, I would like to encourage you to send digital copies of my new book to your family and friends as gifts. That will help to support the work that I am doing, and it will help to multiply the impact of the book. In addition to my new book I have written five other books that are available on Amazon.com including “Lost Prophecies Of The Future Of America”, “The Beginning Of The End”, “Get Prepared Now”, and “Living A Life That Really Matters”. (#CommissionsEarned) By purchasing the books you help to support the work that my wife and I are doing, and by giving it to others you help to multiply the impact that we are having on people all over the globe. I have published thousands of articles on The Economic Collapse Blog, End Of The American Dream and The Most Important News, and the articles that I publish on those sites are republished on dozens of other prominent websites all over the globe. I always freely and happily allow others to republish my articles on their own websites, but I also ask that they include this “About the Author” section with each article. The material contained in this article is for general information purposes only, and readers should consult licensed professionals before making any legal, business, financial or health decisions. I encourage you to follow me on social media on Facebook and Twitter, and any way that you can share these articles with others is a great help. During these very challenging times, people will need hope more than ever before, and it is our goal to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with as many people as we possibly can.