Winding down their second-longest road trip of the season, the Denver Nuggets pay a visit to Minnesota on Tuesday night to take on the Timberwolves. The Nuggets are 4-0 on the current swing, which still features a trip to Utah after Tuesday’s game. Overall, Denver has won five straight games.

Minnesota is looking to claw its way up the standings and get into a much more comfortable playoff position. They’re currently at .500 (25-25) and in position for the seventh seed, but also in a position to make a run right now. After Tuesday’s divisional opponent, the Wolves get a very winnable home-and-home against Detroit, and two-straight in Sacramento against the struggling Kings.

Minnesota is favored by 2.5 points against the Nuggets, and the total line for Tuesday’s game is 230.5 courtesy of Betway in Colorado.

Because of the high elevation, the Nuggets’ home-court advantage is one of the two biggest in the NBA, along with Utah which is also at elevation. But it’s the work the Nuggets are doing right now on the road that’s giving the league notice. The current road swing began with a ho-hum win at Detroit but has since included impressive wins at Brooklyn, New Orleans, and Milwaukee.

It’s the game at Milwaukee that’s got the league buzzing and taking notice of the sleeping giant in Denver. For most of the season, the Nuggets have been hovering around the .500 mark, winning as many as five games straight, but losing as many as six-in-a-row. But Sunday night at Milwaukee, and against a team tied for the second-most wins in the East, Denver won 136-100.

The win against the Bucks was every bit as impressive as the 133-96 win over the Lakers a little over two weeks ago, which followed a 140-108 win over Portland – although both those wins were at home.

As the Nuggets come off their most impressive win of the season, so does Minnesota. On Sunday night they played the top team in the Northwest Division, the Utah Jazz, and they put a beating on one of the best teams in the Western Conference.

The 126-106 victory was highlighted by a triple-double for Karl-Anthony Towns – 31 points, 11 rebounds, and 10 assists – and coming off the bench was 21-year-old Jaden McDaniels, scoring 22 points on nine-for-nine shooting. A total of six Wolves scored in double figures in a completel team effort.

When this version of the Wolves shows up, led by an aggressive Towns, Minnesota is nearly impossible to stop. As of late, this is the Towns we’ve been seeing. For the month of January, he averaged 24.2 points, 10.2 rebounds, and 4.5 assists.

The latest odds from BetMGM in Colorado:

During the Nuggets demolition of the Bucks, Nicola Jokic played just 28 minutes, making him nice and fresh for his matchup in the paint against Towns. Jokic was also seeing the court completely against Milwaukee, scoring 18 points and also dishing out a season-high 15 assists. That’s the sixth time in his last nine games he’s been in double figures in assists.

If there can be such a thing as a quiet MVP campaign, this is it for Jokic. Even though he’s the reigning MVP and his numbers this year are just as good as last season’s (his rebounds are up by 2.9 per game), he’s not getting the deserved buzz.

A big performance against Towns and the Wolves, and continued great play on this road trip would put him in the spotlight. However, Jokic is questionable to play with a right foot injury.

The last time these two teams played, it was Minnesota coming out on top, 124-107. It’s worth noting in that game, Anthony Edwards hit a team-record 10 three-pointers and scored a game-high 38 points. That kind of hot shooting is unlikely on Tuesday night, where the dominant play of Jokic is likely to continue. He’s a special player, having another special season.

Getting 2.5-points makes a bet on the Nuggets extra appealing. A moneyline bet at +125 is also a good bet to make on the Nuggets for Tuesday, especially if Jokic is good to play.

It’s also worth noting Minnesota has gone OVER in seven of their last eight games, and 10 of their last 12. For Denver, they’ve hit the OVER in eight of their last 10.

You can also play a team specific total for the Nuggets at 114.5. Denver has reached at least that total in eight of their last 10 games, and is averaging 120 points over the last five games.

For more information about sports betting in Colorado and how to place bets on the Nuggets and Timberwolves, you can check our NBA betting guide.

This article was provided by Betting.com, a betting community website where you can find the latest promo codes, sportsbook bonuses, expert predictions, and betting picks on all major leagues in the United States and beyond. You’ll also be able to compare odds between different betting sites, have access to high-tech betting calculators, and sports stats to help you place winning bets.

Gambling involves risk. Please only gamble with funds that you can comfortably afford to lose. Whilst we do our utmost to offer good advice and information we cannot be held responsible for any loss that may be incurred as a result of gambling. We do our best to make sure all the information that we provide on this site is correct. However, from time to time mistakes will be made and we will not be held liable. Please check any stats or information if you are unsure how accurate they are.

The news and editorial staffs of The Denver Post had no role in this post’s preparation.

This sponsored content article is governed by our Online Gambling Content Disclaimer (the “Disclaimer”) available here (or at the following URL: https://www.denverpost.com/online-gambling-content-disclaimer), and this sponsored content article constitutes “Gaming Content” as that term is defined in the Disclaimer. Among other things, the Disclaimer governs your access to, and use of, this Gaming Content. By accessing and using this Gaming Content, you expressly agree to the terms and conditions of the Disclaimer. The entire Disclaimer is incorporated herein by this reference. We strongly encourage you to please read the entire Disclaimer carefully.