Former Miami coach Brian Flores filed a lawsuit in New York on Tuesday against the NFL and named the Broncos and two other teams he says have engaged in racist practices against the hiring of Black coaches.

Flores, who interviewed with the Broncos in January 2019, said in the lawsuit that president/CEO Joe Ellis, then-general manager John Elway and “others” showed up an hour late to the interview and “looked completely disheveled and it was obvious that they had been drinking heavily the night before.”

The filing labeled the meeting as a “prior sham interview with the Denver Broncos,” and said Flores was “interviewed only because of the Rooney Rule and that the Broncos never had any intention to consider him as a legitimate candidate for the job. Shortly thereafter, Vic Fangio, a white man, was hired to be head coach of the Broncos.”

Flores was one of five candidates interviewed to replace Vance Joseph. His interview fulfilled the NFL’s Rooney Rule requirement (at least one minority candidate interviewed). Flores was hired by the Dolphins following New England’s Super Bowl win over the Los Angeles Rams.

The Broncos issued a strongly-worded statement in response to the lawsuit.

“The allegations from Brian Flores directed toward the Denver Broncos in (Tuesday’s) court filing are blatantly false,” the team said.

The Broncos said five executives traveled to Providence, R.I., for the interview and it started “promptly at the scheduled time of 7:30 a.m. on Jan. 5, 2019,” and lasted the “fully allotted time” of 3 1/2 hours.

“Pages of detailed notes, analysis and evaluations from our interview demonstrate the depth of our conversation and sincere interest in Mr. Flores as a head coaching candidate,” the Broncos said. “Our process was thorough and fair to determine the most qualified candidate for our head coaching position. The Broncos will vigorously defend the integrity and values of our organization — and its employees — from such baseless and disparaging claims.”

In November 2020, ahead of the Dolphins’ visit to the play the Broncos, Flores participated in a conference call with the Denver media. He said he remembered his interview with the Broncos “vividly.”

“It was just great, for me, doing my own background work and learning more about the Denver Broncos and their history, the Bowlen family and the great history that they have there as an organization,” Flores said. “I was excited to interview with them. I thought it went well. … I think Vic is a great coach. They got the right coach and the right people in place. … It was a good experience for me personally.”

The Broncos are listed as a defendant along with the Dolphins (who fired Flores last month), the Giants (who interviewed Flores last week), the NFL and “John Doe Teams 1-29.”

Flores’ filing said the Giants “deceptively led Mr. Flores to believe he actually had a chance at this (opening),” but had already decided to hire Brian Daboll.

The Giants responded by saying: “The fact of the matter is, Brian Flores was in the conversation to be our head coach until the 11th hour. Ultimately, we hired the individual we felt was most qualified to be our next head coach.”

Flores also took aim at the Dolphins and alleged that owner Stephen Ross wanted him to “tank” for the first pick in the 2020 draft and would pay Flores $100,000 for every loss.

In a statement, the NFL said: “The NFL and our clubs are deeply committed to ensuring equitable employment practices and continue to make progress in providing equitable opportunities throughout our organizations. Diversity is core to everything we do, and there are few issues on which our clubs and our internal leadership team spend more time. We will defend against these claims, which are without merit.”