The body of Taylour Young was discovered in the trunk of his vehicle in Dallas on Jan. 19 after he disappeared in early December. (Courtesy of Houston Police Department)

A body found in Texas on Jan. 19 has been identified as Taylour Young, a 25-year-old man who went missing nearly two months ago, police said on Monday.

The Houston Police Department said in an updated missing persons report that the body was found inside the trunk of Young’s vehicle in an impound lot in Dallas, a city in North Texas.

Authorities confirmed that a homicide investigation remains ongoing and the Dallas County Medical Examiner’s Office is working on determining Young’s cause of death.

Young was last seen on a surveillance camera in early December while driving his silver Honda Civic on South Voss Road in Houston during his lunch break.

Following the news of police positively identifying the discovered remains as Young, his mother, Tiffany Robinson, said on social media that as she “shared Taylour’s disappearance with the world,” she also wants to “share [her] worldly loss as well.”

“God has allowed me to celebrate life with my son,” Robinson said. “I am so thankful that God blessed me with Taylour. I am proud of the man he matured into.”

“During [our] family time of mourning, I ask that you continue to lift us up in prayer,” his mother added, thanking everyone for their support.

Young’s longtime friend, Christian Gorgy, told ABC13 that his death “makes absolutely no sense at all.” He said they were so close that it felt more like they were family.

“It’s devastating just knowing I’m never gonna be able to hear from him again. I don’t even know what to do,” Gorgy told the network.

“He had no enemies. Everybody loved him. He didn’t owe anybody money. He had no addictions. He didn’t do drugs. It just makes absolutely no sense at all,” he added.

Houston Police said that Young’s body was recovered “in an advanced state of decomposition” and are asking anyone who may have information to call the department’s homicide division at 713-308-3600.