In November 2021, Colorado citizens filed a lawsuit against radical Secretary of State (SOS) Jena Griswold.

USEIP reported on the lawsuit — Hanks et al v. Griswold was filed in Denver District Court. The most damning facts of the case claim that Colorado Secretary of State Jena Griswold and her employees destroyed election records from the 2020 election. Griswold and other Colorado election officials are required by state law to preserve those election records for twenty-five months, and by federal law for twenty-two months. The relief sought in this case is a full, independent forensic audit of Colorado voting systems and the 2020 election in Colorado so citizens’ trust in their elections might be restored.

When asked whether the deleted elections records were significant or simply inconsequential extra files on election servers, or electronic voting equipment, Col. (ret.) Shawn Smith USAF systems testing expert stated,

“The Federal Election Commission’s 2002 Voting System Standards, which are a mandatory standard for Colorado voting systems, require voting systems to maintain and produce ‘all audit trail information,’ including operating system and hardware. The Department of Justice has already confirmed that digital records ARE election records. The federal and state statutes that require preservation of election records were written for the EXACT purpose of ensuring the availability of records EXACTLY like the those destroyed by the Secretary of State.”

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

Earlier in the year Griswold went on NPR to criticize Mesa County Clerk Ms. Tina Peters and The Gateway Pundit for reporting on Griswold’s request to destroy 2020 Election data.

Ms. Tina Peters copied election data from her county that Jena Griswold told her to delete. For this Griswold sent the FBI in to raid her offices. Jena Griswold wanted to erase all the evidence from the 2020 election but Tina Peters spoiled her plans.

Last week Ashe in America dropped more bad news on Soros-supported SOS Jena Griswold.

A SECOND Colorado County Clerk Dallas Shroeder from Elbert County also copied the files before they were deleted.

 Via Ashe in America.

In an affidavit signed by Clerk Schroeder, he explains his actions: “I was told that there was evidence that the ‘trusted build’ process that was performed on Mesa County’s Dominion voting system during May of 2021, had erased electronic files that were part of the 2020 election records. This information was concerning, because I have a legal duty to retain election records for 25 months after every election. The purpose of retaining the records is so that a proper audit of an election can be performed. I was concerned that the ‘trusted build’ process might erase electronic election records from the Elbert County elections systems, which would violate state law.”

The Colorado citizens suing Griswold are requesting a court order to have it forensically examined to confirm what cyber experts found in Mesa: destruction of election records, an uncertifiable, non-compliant voting system, and a coffin-nail in the unwarranted “gold standard” refrain.

Jena Griswold had hoped to steal all future Colorado elections. Now the situation is not looking so good for her.