ABC insiders are saying Whoopi Goldberg “is in deep sh*t” after her comments on the Holocaust Monday.

“The View” co-host Whoopi Goldberg repeatedly said the Holocaust had nothing to do with race.

“The Holocaust isn’t about race. No, it’s not about race. It’s not about race. It’s about man’s inhumanity to man. That’s what it’s about,” Goldberg said on Monday’s episode of “The View.”

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

Whoopi Goldberg, 66, walked back her comments Monday evening and issued an apology.

“I understand why now, and for that, I am deeply, deeply grateful because the information I got was really helpful and helped me understand some different things,” she said.

According to Page Six, Whoopi’s apology isn’t good enough and ABC insiders are demanding she be fired.

Sources told Page Six that Whoopi’s “agents are panicking that she may have ruined herself for good.”

There is growing fury inside ABC over Whoopi Goldberg’s controversial Holocaust claims, with insiders insisting that her apology isn’t enough and demanding that she be fired. On Monday’s edition of “The View,” Goldberg, 66, alleged that the Holocaust was “not about race,” claiming Nazis and Jews were both white. She doubled down on the claim on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” on Monday after stating via Twitter, “I stand corrected.” However, sources tell Page Six that staffers and fellow hosts on “The View,” as well as insiders at Disney, are furious that Goldberg has not been disciplined. “ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction. The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s–t,’” one ABC insider told us. “Why does Whoopi seemingly get a pass when others don’t? Perhaps this time she won’t. Many at the network — including her fellow hosts — believe Whoopi is too controversial now for the show.” The insider also told Page Six that the situation “isn’t just going to blow over.” “This will cast a shadow over everything for a while. Even Joy Behar was heard saying backstage that Whoopi is ‘dead wrong’ and may not ever recover from this,” the source said. “Joy found this particularly troubling and couldn’t believe Whoopi wouldn’t stand corrected until she was forced.”