Obama and Biden likely knew that the Ukrainian prosecutor looking into Burisma was a good guy. New information indicates that the State Department felt prosecutor Shokin, who Biden had fired, was a good guy.

This really surprises no one. When the crooked Democrats attempted to impeach President Trump for his perfectly fine phone call with the Ukraine leader, they were afraid that the truth would be found out. That the prosecutorin the Ukraine that Joe Biden had fired when he was Vice President under Obama, was a good guy and the State Department felt this was so.

Who can forget Biden bragging about having Shokin fired – the guy who was looking into Joe’s son Hunter’s actions in the Ukraine.

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

In 2016, Burisma Holdings was being investigated by Ukraine’s then-Prosecutor General Viktor Shokin while then-Vice President Joe Biden’s Hunter sat on the company’s board making $83,000. So Joe Biden threatened to withhold $1 billion in aid to Ukraine unless they fired Shokin. Biden argued that his actions were above board because he was carrying out the “official policy” of the Obama administration to root out corruption in Ukraine. “It was a fully transparent policy carried out in front of the whole world and fully, fully embraced by the international community of democracies,” he claimed. But according to official memos seen by Just The News, this is not the case. Instead, these memos indicate that U.S. State Department officials were “impressed” with Shokin’s anti-corruption plan and fully supportive of his efforts—undermining a key narrative during the Democrats’ first partisan impeachment of President Trump. During the trial, House Democrats maintained that Shokin was fired because State Department officials weren’t happy with his anti-corruption efforts, not because he was investigating Burisma. But these memos obtained by Just the News and the Southeastern Legal Foundation under a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request show that senior State Department officials, including then-Secretary of State John Kerry, were “impressed” with Shokin’s efforts. “We have been impressed with the ambitious reform and anti-corruption agenda of your government,” then-Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland personally wrote Shokin on behalf of Secretary of State John Kerry on June 9, 2015.

A few months later Joe Biden had Shokin fired.

President Trump had every right to investigate Obama and Biden’s actions in Ukraine. We now know more about why this was a good idea.

To think the corrupt Democrats knew that Biden’s actions were corrupt and hid it from the American people while trying to impeach President Trump for doing nothing wrong.