Illinois HB4244, which would change participation in Illinois’ vaccine registry from voluntary to mandatory, is currently in the subcommittee, but it’s not gone by any means.

It’s scheduled to be heard again in the main Illinois House Human Services Committee on Wednesday, February 2 at 9:00 AM.

This liberty loathing, tyranny-loving bill is an invasion of medical privacy, a government overreach, and a tool for imposing a mandate for the covid vaccine as well as other vaccines.

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

My source for the new upcoming hearing is the synopsis page for HB4244 on the Illinois General Assembly’s website: Bill Status of HB4244 102nd General Assembly

The media has done a terrible job of covering the status of this bill after it was originally heard in committee last week.

Media coverage of HB4244 has ceased and people are proclaiming that this bill is dead on social media, yet the synopsis page for this bill clearly indicates that is not the case.

I encourage those who oppose this bill to submit an opposing witness slip. Witness slips are important because they provide a public tally of the widespread opposition to the bill.

31,992 opposing witness slips have been submitted as of 9:15 PM on January 31.

You have the ability to submit a new witness slip whenever this bill is scheduled for a new hearing before the main committee that it’s assigned to.

If you submitted a previous witness slip, it is still listed as having been submitted as well. This is just a chance to reaffirm your stance on the bill.

Link showing the total number of witness slips submitted for HB4244: Witness Slips For HB4244 102nd General Assembly

It looks like the supporters of this bill in the Illinois House are trying to outwit the opposition. They seem to be waiting for us to lose focus and attention on this bill or to be waiting for us to give up in resignation.

I hate that they are trying so hard to pass a bill that has so much widespread opposition and so little support. We can’t relent in our opposition to this bill.

This is a classic case of the Illinois political establishment being in opposition to the will of the public that they are supposed to be representing and serving.

I recommend calling and emailing the sponsor of this bill, State Representative Bob Morgan (D), the other members of the Illinois House Human Services Committee, and every other member of the Illinois House to express opposition as well.

That way, the political establishment can’t just dismiss the opposing witness slips as having been submitted by bots as they did when they exempted the covid vaccine from the state’s religious exemption law last fall.

The phone line for Morgan’s Springfield office actually crashed last week due to the high call volume and calls sent to it had to be redirected to the clerk of the Illinois House’s office.

I experienced this myself when I called that line last week.

The number for Morgan’s Highwood office went straight to voicemail even during normal business hours due to the high call volume.

This bill would allow the state to “isolate or quarantine persons who are unable or unwilling to receive vaccines, medications, or other treatments.”

HB4640 is scheduled to be heard in the Illinois House Human Services Committee on Wednesday, February 2 at 9:00 AM.

If HB4640 were to become law, people exposed to an infectious disease could be placed under public health department observation in a contained atmosphere with department watch guards.

These would basically be quarantine camps.

The bill says in part:

This is a liberty loathing, tyranny-loving egregious overreach of government power.

Most people experience covid as a cold or asymptomatically. While some people do experience covid in a more severe manner, that still doesn’t warrant this extreme overreach.

HB4640 would also set up a state network data collection system for people that have received mandated vaccines, medications, or otherwise.

This would be similar to the mandatory vaccine registry proposed by Illinois HB4244, but even worse as it also tracks mandated medications and other mandated medical orders.

Link to Illinois Review article on HB4640: DEMOCRAT REP CALLS FOR QUARANTINE TO OBSERVE THOSE REFUSING VACCINES

Link showing the total number of witness slips submitted for HB4640: Witness Slips For HB4640 102nd General Assembly

Synopsis of HB4640 of the Illinois General Assembly’s website. Note that the synopsis does not mention the part about the quarantine camps. This is only included in the full text of the bill: Bill Status of HB4640 102nd General Assembly

I recommend calling and emailing the sponsor of this bill, State Representative Deb Conroy (D), the members of the Illinois House Human Services Committee, and every other member of the Illinois House to express opposition as well.

If you are emailing multiple representatives, you can save time by using the bcc (blind carbon copy) option. Bcc allows you to send a single email separately to multiple recipients at once.

It won’t be a group email and the recipients won’t be able to see each other in the recipient line of the email.