Last Monday the Arizona Senate reconvened. During a Senate session, the discussion turned to the UOCAVA voters — the voters covered under the Uniform Overseas Civilian Absentee Voting Act. These are the men and women who are serving their country in the military and send in a mail-in vote from where they are stationed outside the country.
• members of the United States Uniformed Services and merchant marine;

During the hearing, Paul Harris, a Maricopa resident and veteran in corporate executive management, spoke to the committee. Harris was a manager during the audit of the Maricopa County audit of the 2020 election ballots.

Paul Harris was tasked with overseeing the UOCAVA ballots during the audit. He described his experience.

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

Paul Harris: The UOCAVA is the Uniform Overseas Civilian Absentee Voting Act ballot. That ballot is sent out to men and women who work overseas and the people who work overseas to get a chance to work in the election. This is what a ballot looks like that goes out, an 11 1/2 X 19 ballot. When I opened up a box of ballots this is what a ballot looks like that’s a UOCAVA ballot. You know what that is? It’s an 8 1/2 X 11 sheet of copy paper.

Paul Harris continued: “Did you all know that our ballots come back like this from our overseas people? Did any of you know thia? It is such a sham that I had people everyday at my table taking pictures of these ballots that were scanned down. It took my team three complete days to count all of the UOCAVA ballots. You know why? Because in 2016 the numbers were apparently 1,600 UOCAVA ballots that came back in the most significant election in our lifetime. In 2020 the numbers were close to 9,600 ballots that came back. And I will tell you as an eye-witness, 95%… all went towards one candidate. And in a state where a candidate won by 10,000 votes that is 8,000 new votes during an election where people were brought home because there was a pandemic… No chain of custody. There’s nothing to identify where this piece of paper came from.

This testimony by Paul Harris is very similar to what we witnessed in Michigan and Georgia.

We have reported on this extensively at The Gateway Pundit.

Democrats obviously organized this method of cheating in several states. We now have testimony in three battleground states of this happening.

Back in 2020 election worker and witness Kathleen Alby (sp?) testified at the November 2020 Arizona Senate Hyatt hearing for Rudy Giuliani.

She said baskets of “military faxes” in Pima County were converted to actual ballots at stations with just one person.

The cubicles only had one chair, no observers. She said hundreds (probably thousands) of these ballots had no chain of custody. She and other election workers could not get questions answered regarding this shady process.

AZ State Senator: “Were there a lot of those duplicates (military ballots)?”

Ms. Alby: “Yes. Thousands of them. At one point that’s all that they were processing were the faxed ones.”

Ms. Alby later described the thousands of ballots faxed in from overseas or wherever they were coming from.

Ms. Alby: “I complained about the chain of custody of all of these faxes because there were so many, and I questioned that. Because I wasn’t sure, I mean, I could be in Michigan and I could fax something to Pima County. It could be rerouted anywhere, through any fax. And how do I know it didn’t come from Afghanistan? “

Again, this appears to be a highly coordinated tactic used by the left in several battleground states.

 If we had an honest mainstream media, they would report on this.

 If we had a non-biased FBI, they would be investigating this.

 If we had a Republican Party that gave a damn, they would not be ignoring this.