Disneyland in Anaheim, California sent out an email on Thursday announcing that the company will require all employees to be fully vaccinated by March 28, 2022.

According to the email obtained by The Gateway Pundit, Disneyland is moving ahead with vaccination requirements for its employees as they weren’t able to reach an agreement with the union leadership.

“We have met with union leadership to discuss this vaccination requirement and while we have conducted thoughtful and thorough conversations, we were unable to reach an agreement with your union after months of good faith negotiations. The Company is moving forward with the vaccination requirement for your role at the Disneyland Resort,” Global HR Operations wrote.

The Workers United Local 50 Union, which consists of more than 6,500 food and beverage cast members at the Disneyland Resort, announced on their official Facebook page that Disney will be moving forward with requiring COVID vaccination for Local 50 and other Union’s not currently under a mandate.

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

One user asked what was the negotiation that the union and Disneyland couldn’t agree on. According to Grace Campista, who serves on the union’s executive board per Voice of OC, “we requested that Disney require guests to be vaccinated or a negative test as well and they said no.”

Read the email sent from Disneyland below:

Last summer, The Walt Disney Company announced it will require salaried and hourly non-union employees and new hires in the U.S. to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. This requirement will help protect the safety and well-being of our Cast. The COVID-19 vaccine provides the best protection against severe illness and is recommended as the best course of prevention from scientists, health officials and our own medical professionals. We have met with union leadership to discuss this vaccination requirement and while we have conducted thoughtful and thorough conversations, we were unable to reach an agreement with your union after months of good faith negotiations. The Company is moving forward with the vaccination requirement for your role at the Disneyland Resort. Based upon your role, this means that you will be required to complete your vaccination protocols (by Monday, March 28, 2022). (If you are currently on furlough or another leave of absence with a return date after Monday, March 28, 2022, you will need to provide verification of vaccination before you return.) You have thirty (30) days from Thursday, January 27, 2022 to receive the first shot of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine or the single shot of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.

 You will then have an additional thirty (30) days to receive the second shot (if applicable).

 Upon completion of this 60-day time frame, you will have an additional fourteen (14) days to submit verification (by Monday, April 11, 2022) of the completion of your vaccination series to the Company.

 If you would like to request an accommodation due to religious and/or medical reasons, please complete the accommodation form as soon as possible.

 Within the next few days, you will receive communication from TrustAssure with a link to a secure form where you will be able to upload your COVID-19 vaccination verification documents (i.e. images of your vaccination card). Once you are fully vaccinated as defined below, please complete this process during your regular work time, not personal time (including any meal and rest periods). Should you need any assistance or resources to complete this step, please see your leader.

 People who are fully vaccinated are defined as those who are: At least two (2) weeks after the final dose in a two-dose COVID-19 vaccination series (manufactured by Pfizer or Moderna)

 At least two (2) weeks after a single-dose vaccine (manufactured by Johnson & Johnson)

 We’ve been closely monitoring the impact of the pandemic on our communities and, as always, we believe it is important to put the safety of our Employees and Cast Members at the forefront. Due to the dynamic nature of the pandemic, we continue to evaluate and evolve our practices; you can find the latest information about COVID-19 vaccines via the HUB on the Staying Healthy site or the Moving Forward, Together site.

Got any tips? Email us at [email protected]. Please follow our Telegram channel to get the latest news updates: https://t.me/gatewaypunditofficial