BORIS Johnson was rocked today as Sue Gray's Partygate probe tore into "failures of leadership and judgment" inside No10 during lockdown.

In a watered-down version of the Whitehall inquiry, the top civil servant said "too little thought" was often given to the public's hardship during the pandemic.

Ms Gray also blasted the booze culture inside government and demanded changes in behaviour were made.

Her 12-page report concluded: "There were failures of leadership and judgment by different parts of No10 and the Cabinet Office at different times.

"Some of the events should not have been allowed to take place. Other events should not have been allowed to develop as they did."

Humbled Mr Johnson today issued an apology in the Commons and vowed to change the way he works through a new Office of the Prime Minister.

He told MPs: "Firstly, I want to say sorry - and I'm sorry for the things we simply didn't get right and also sorry for the way this matter has been handled.

"It's no use saying this or that was within the rules and it's no use saying people were working hard. This pandemic was hard for everyone."
• Ms Gray revealed the Met were probing 12 out of the 16 gatherings
• Scotland Yard said they have been handed 300 pics and 500 pieces of paper
• Ms Gray revealed the cops were investigating a gathering in the PM's flat the night Dominic Cummings resigned
• Ms Gray said some staff felt too afraid to challenge the behaviour inside No10
• The PM reacted by vowing to shake-up his No10 operation
• Mr Johnson is set to rally Tory MPs at a meeting this evening
• Andrew Mitchell became the eighth Tory MP to publicly call for Mr Johnson to quit
• He will then avoid the fallout by jetting off to Ukraine tomorrow

Crucial findings have been redacted from the report after Scotland Yard demanded Ms Gray leaves out anything that encroaches on their own inquiry.

Dame Cressida Dick took a wrecking ball to the civil service probe by launching her own police investigation into eight parties in Downing Street and Whitehall.

In her report Ms Gray revealed the Met were investigating 12 out of the 16 gatherings that formed part of her probe.

Cops today revealed they have been handed a staggering 300 pics and 500 documents relating to the Partygate prone.

In the Commons the PM came under huge pressure across the House to release the fully-fledged Gray report in full once the Met probe had wrapped - but refused to do so.

The Met probe means references to these 12 gatherings were effectively off-limits for the final version of her pared-back report.

They include the "bring your own booze bash" in the Downing St garden, and two No10 parties on the eve of Prince Philip's funeral.

But worryingly for Mr Johnson it also includes a gathering in the No10 flat on November 13, the night Dominic Cummings left.

Despite press reports of attendees belting out ABBA, the PM has previously suggested in the Commons that a party did not take place, while Carrie Johnson's spokesperson has categorically denied it.

That the police are investigating the gathering suggests they have found evidence of law-breaking.

Although holding back from implying criminality, Ms Gray accused Downing St staff of not following the rules they were inflicting on the nation.

She said: "At least some of the gatherings in question represent a serious failure to observe not just the high standards expected of those working at the heart of

Government but also of the standards expected of the entire British population

at the time."

The Whitehall tough-nut added that at times "too little thought" was given to the suffering of the public.

She also lashed out at the "excessive consumption of alcohol" following reports No10 staff wheeled in a suitcase rammed with wine bottles.

And - as a result of the dual residence-workplace nature of Downing St - she said the lines between work and play sometimes became blurred.

Downing Street has not committed to publish the full findings of the Gray report even once the cops finish, meaning they may never see the light of day.

Mr Johnson and senior Downing St staff have been interviewed as part of the process.

The PM has for weeks been urging rebellious Tory MPs to wait for the Gray report before submitting letters of no confidence in his leadership.

He has insisted the findings would exonerate him from any lockdown-rule breaking and "draw a line" under the saga.

But it remains to be seen if the watered-down report is enough to bring would-be mutineers back from the ledge - or whether they'll hold judgement until the Met probe concludes.

Ex-Chief Whip Andrew Mitchell today became the eighth Tory MP to publicly call for Mr Johnson to resign.

Former PM Theresa May also twisted the knife into her successor in the Commons.

To placate wavering Tory MPs, the PM vowed to tighten the code of conduct for No10 staff and create an Office of the Prime Minister.

Publication of the Gray report had been expected to trigger a further cascade of letters, but temperatures now appear to have cooled.

Mr Johnson's loyalists has been shoring up support with wavering MPs, while the PM has been meeting some personally in his office.

In a fiery Commons clash Sir Keir Starmer fumed: "By routinely breaking the rules he set, the Prime Minister took us all for fools.

"He held people’s sacrifice in contempt. He showed himself unfit for office."

The PM shot back that Sir Keir was a former director of public prosecutions "who spent more time prosecuting journalists and failed to prosecute Jimmy Saville."