Manchester United footballer Mason Greenwood has been further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and making threats to kill.

The 20-year-old was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault on Sunday afternoon after police saw a woman reporting claims of physical violence and sexual threats on social media.

Greater Manchester police, who have not identified the player by name, said on Tuesday that a suspect had been further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and making threats to kill.

Greenwood, who is regarded as one of England’s most talented young footballers, remains in custody being questioned by detectives. Officers have until Wednesday to either charge him or release him on police bail.

The striker, who has played once for the England national team, was suspended from playing for or training with Manchester United until further notice after the allegations.

In a statement on Tuesday, Greater Manchester police said a suspect had been detained in custody on Sunday afternoon after it became aware of online social media images and videos posted by a woman alleging incidents of physical violence.

A spokesperson said: “Detectives have been granted further additional time to speak to a man in his 20s who was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault of a woman …



“He continues to be questioned after magistrates authorised an extension until tomorrow, Wednesday 2 February.

“Following inquiries so far, he has since been further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and threats to kill.



“We remind people to avoid any commentary or sharing of images that could compromise [a complainant’s] right to lifelong anonymity, or risk prejudicing a live investigation with active proceedings.

“If you’re a victim of domestic abuse, or are concerned about someone you know, please use our online reporting facility or use our LiveChat facility on our website, or call 101. In an emergency that’s on-going or life is in danger, always dial 999.”

Sponsor Nike has also moved to distance itself from Greenwood. He remains on full pay with his club, the Guardian understands.

A statement on Monday read: “We have suspended our relationship with Mason Greenwood. We are deeply concerned by the disturbing allegations and will continue to closely monitor the situation.”

Images and allegations were visible on the woman’s Instagram on Sunday morning but have since been deleted.

A Manchester United spokesperson said: “Manchester United reiterates its strong condemnation of violence of any kind. As previously communicated, Mason Greenwood will not train with, or play for, the club until further notice.”

The Manchester United Supporters Trust (MUST) posted on Twitter on Sunday: “The club has now confirmed that Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice. MUST fully support the decision of the club in this regard.”