Covid vaccination rates show wide gaps in coverage between children of different ethnic backgrounds, social class and regions of England, according to figures published by the Office for National Statistics.

While the national average shows that just 52.5% of children aged between 12 and 15 received at least one dose of a Covid vaccine, rates among black children and those of Gypsy or Roma heritage are still far below the national average.

Shamez Ladhani, consultant paediatrician at the UK Health Security Agency and the study’s chief investigator, said: “With Covid-19 case rates currently high across school-age groups, it’s vital that we monitor and evaluate measures that help reduce transmission. We need families and students to continue to take part in the programme.”

According to the ONS data, by mid-January 75% of children of Chinese heritage had received a vaccination, followed by nearly 66% of children of Indian heritage and 59% from white British backgrounds.

But of those of Pakistani background just 34% had received a vaccination, followed by 27% of those of black African heritage, and only 12% of Gypsy, Roma and black Caribbean children.

There were also substantial regional differences, with London having the lowest rates of vaccination for the 12-15 age group and the 16-17 age group, followed by the north-west of England.

Raghib Ali, a senior clinical research associate at the University of Cambridge who has worked on Covid vaccine hesitancy for the government’s race disparity unit, said that the rates mirrored those of vaccine hesitancy among adults, and suggested that the high rates of natural infection experienced by children – especially in large cities such as London – may have led many families to think there was no need for a vaccination.

Ali said parents needed to be assured that adding a vaccine on top of natural infection provided an even greater level of protection for their children.

“The key thing is to provide parents and older children with information so that they can make informed choice, so they know what the benefit of the vaccine is likely to be.

“It’s important that we are honest about that, that the vaccine doesn’t reduce transmission as much as we would like but it’s probably going to reduce the risk of long Covid and hospitalisation and death,” Ali said.

“That’s one area where we, as doctors, healthcare workers and the government, should make sure that everyone has access to the facts and comprehensive information, and that would probably help to increase uptake.”

Another reason for the low uptake could have been the recent rapid spread of Covid among schoolchildren, causing many to need to wait 28 days after infection before receiving a dose of the vaccine. A study published week found that more than 90% of children aged 12 to 15 had Covid antibodies.

The ONS figures showed vaccination rates declined substantially according to areas of deprivation. While just over 70% of those from the wealthiest 10% had received a vaccine, the proportion fell by three to five percentage points for each decile. By the 10% in most deprived areas, just 36% had at least one jab.

Just 36% of those aged 12-15 who received free school meals had been vaccinated, compared with 59% of those not receiving free school meals.

Stephen Morgan, Labour’s shadow education minister, said ministers had failed to tackle the inequalities that were affecting children’s vaccination rates.

“The government must redouble its efforts to drive up vaccination rates, including delivering targeted communications campaigns and school exclusion zones to prevent anti-vaxxers spreading dangerous disinformation,” Morgan said.