A WOMAN who falsely accused a black teenager of stealing her iPhone at a New York City hotel broke her silence by claiming she was the one assaulted in the confrontation.

The 22-year-old woman—who has been nicknamed “SoHo Karen”—has not been publicly named, but spoke in a 20-minute phone call with CNN on Tuesday.

She said that she was assaulted and told CNN she would provide evidence to back up her claim, but stopped responding to the media outlet’s calls and messages afterward.

The altercation occurred on Saturday at the Arlo SoHo boutique hotel in New York City.

Grammy Award-winning trumpet player Keyon Harrold recorded video of the woman approaching her 14-year-old son in the hotel lobby and accusing him of stealing her phone.

She asked the hotel manager to force the teenager to show the phone in his pocket, and the footage showed her appearing to lunge at the father and son before falling to the ground.

An Uber driver reportedly dropped a phone off at the hotel shortly after the incident.

In her interview with CNN, the woman disputed Harrold’s description of the incident.

The woman said that she first demanded to see the hotel’s surveillance videos and then asked someone in the lobby to “empty their pocket.”

She said she then approached Keyon Harrold Jr, believing he had taken her phone.

"That's when everything got a little bit more serious," she said.

Asked if she was worried she could face charges, the woman replied: “Of course I worry. That's not who I am. I actually ... try very hard to make sure that I am always doing the right thing.”

The woman rambled during some parts of the call and included details that were not linked to the incident and unconfirmed by the news outlet.

She said she was willing to speak with the Harrolds, as well as cooperate with the New York Police Department’s investigation.

Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance’s office is “thoroughly investigating” the confrontation, according to a spokesman.

Investigators are weighing whether they will press charges of assault, grand larceny or attempted theft against the woman.

NYPD’s chief of detectives, Rodney Harrison, said authorities were not planning to charge the woman with bias crime “at this time."

"The investigation is still preliminary, a lot of work still needs to be done," Harrison said.

"The complainants are cooperating and I'm confident that the investigators from the first precinct will make an arrest on this case sooner than later.”