THE deadliest serial killer in American history, Samuel Little, has died at the age of 80 in his California jail cell.

Little, who admitted to killing 93 people across 19 states over the span of four decades, often targeted women in need of help.

The beast preyed on sex workers, drug users, and poor, mostly Black women.

Authorities often failed to solve or didn't have enough evidence to prosecute Little in connection with the murders.

Some of the slasher's victims are still missing, with police departments continuing to search for their bodies decades after he admitted having killed them.

Authorities say the majority of Little's murders would never have been solved had he not confessed to them in 2018.

The evil Little had been serving multiple life sentences in a California prison.

Police had been spending the last two years using Little's confessions to reopen cold-cases across the country.

About half of Little's victims remain unidentified, meaning his death could stall efforts to help bring closure to families of those women he preyed on.

Little died at 4:53 AM on Wednesday in a hospital, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation said.

Vicky Waters, a spokesperson for the department, said there were no signs of foul play.

His cause of death was not yet released and will be determined by the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner’s Office.

In 2014, his DNA was used to tie and convict him to three murders, which he maintained his innocence.

It wasn't until 2018 when he began confessing of his crimes to James Holland, a Texas Ranger who was questioning Little about a killing it later turned out he didn't commit.

Throughout 700 hours of interviews, Little gave away details to a whole litany of killings that only a murderer would know.

Little would tell Holland the victims he would choose were those that investigators in cold cases would often overlook, or "people who would be immediately missed."

America's deadliest serial killer even gave Holland paintings and drawings of his victims, labeling their likenesses with their names if he could remember them.

He would even throw in other details if he remembered them, including the year and the location of where he murdered them - and where he dumped their bodies.

Authorities have been looking into the killer's claims since his confession in 2018. So far, they've confirmed close to 60 of his killings, and believe the others will also be true.

"Nothing he’s ever said has been proven to be wrong or false," Holland said during a CBS interview in 2019.

"I’d go back to the same city sometimes and pluck me another grape," Little once said in an interview. "How many grapes do you all got on the vine here?"

"I’m not going to go over there into the white neighborhood and pick out a little teenage girl," he said.

For the latest news on this story keep checking back at Sun Online.

The Sun is your go to destination for the best celebrity news, football news, real-life stories, jaw-dropping pictures and must-see video.

Download our fantastic, new and improved free App for the best ever Sun Online experience. For iPhone click here, for Android click here.

Like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/TheSunUS and follow us from our main Twitter account at @TheSunUS.