President Biden Joe BidenOvernight Health Care — Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine approved Overnight Defense & National Security — US, Russian officials face off at meeting Biden to relaunch 'cancer moonshot' effort at Wednesday event MORE spoke with Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellTrump creates new Jan. 6 headaches for GOP Governors lament 'existential threat' of partisanship in Washington With Breyer's exit, all SCOTUS progressives will be women MORE (Ky.) on Tuesday about Supreme Court Justice Stephen BreyerStephen BreyerJudiciary chair says 'several' Republicans could be open to Biden Supreme Court pick On The Money — How Breyer bailing blocks Build Back Better With Breyer's exit, all SCOTUS progressives will be women MORE's forthcoming retirement and filling the seat on the high court.

"This afternoon, Leader McConnell spoke with President Biden to discuss his upcoming selection to fill Justice Breyer’s seat on the Supreme Court," a spokesman for McConnell said.

"The Leader believes the cornerstone of a nominee’s judicial philosophy should be a commitment to originalism and textualism. He emphasized the importance of a nominee who believes in judicial independence and will resist all efforts by politicians to bully the Court or to change the structure of the judicial system," the spokesman added.

Biden's outreach to McConnell, who he cut deals with during the Obama era, comes as the White House is reaching out to GOP senators while the president mulls who to nominate for Breyer's seat. Biden is expected to name his nominee by the end of the month.

Though Senate Democrats can confirm the nominee without Republican help if all 50 remain united, they are hopeful that they'll be able to peel off at least one GOP vote.

Biden also met with Sen. Chuck Grassley Chuck GrassleyJudiciary chair says 'several' Republicans could be open to Biden Supreme Court pick Biden to meet with Durbin, Grassley on SCOTUS vacancy Senate GOP faces uncharted waters in Supreme Court fight MORE (Iowa), the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, on Tuesday along with Judiciary Committee chairman Dick Durbin Dick DurbinSenate group plows forward with election law changes after Trump remarks Judiciary chair says 'several' Republicans could be open to Biden Supreme Court pick Biden to meet with Durbin, Grassley on SCOTUS vacancy MORE (D-Ill.). Sen. Susan Collins Susan Margaret CollinsSenate group plows forward with election law changes after Trump remarks Judiciary chair says 'several' Republicans could be open to Biden Supreme Court pick Trump creates new Jan. 6 headaches for GOP MORE (R-Maine) has been in touch with the White House and Sen. Lindsey Graham Lindsey Olin GrahamTrump creates new Jan. 6 headaches for GOP Psaki: Trump raising Jan. 6 pardons, overturning election a reminder he's unfit The Hill's 12:30 Report: US, Russia meet to discuss Ukraine MORE (R-S.C.) said he is expecting to speak to the White House on Tuesday.

Graham and Collins are viewed as potential "yes" votes for Biden's eventual nominee because they both supported then-President Obama Barack Hussein ObamaThe Memo: Crime puts Biden, Psaki on defense Governors lament 'existential threat' of partisanship in Washington With Breyer's exit, all SCOTUS progressives will be women MORE's Supreme Court nominees. Along with Sen. Lisa Murkowski Lisa Ann MurkowskiTrump creates new Jan. 6 headaches for GOP The Hill's 12:30 Report: US, Russia meet to discuss Ukraine The Hill's Morning Report - What's Putin's next move? MORE (R-Alaska) they have voted for more of Biden's lower court nominees than the rest of the Senate GOP caucus.