The ACTING Customs and Border Protection (CBP) commissioner suggested that the US will see “waves” of illegal immigration under President-elect Joe Biden.

Mark Morgan, the acting CBP commissioner, shared his view in a pair of tweets on Tuesday promoting an asylum cooperation agreement that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) signed with El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

“These humanitarian agreements demonstrate the Trump administration’s unwavering efforts to secure America's borders from illegal entry by working closely with our regional partners,” Morgan tweeted.

Morgan added that “without these agreements, we will likely see waves of attempted illegal entries similar to 2019,” seeming to allude to Biden’s upcoming presidency.

The CBP commissioner also tweeted: “Our collaborative approach with our partner countries will protect the American homeland from uncontrolled mass migration during a global pandemic while also allowing migrating Central Americans a safe place to seek protection closer to their homes.”

According to a DHS press release, more than 71 percent of migrants who were apprehended at the US’s southwest border during fiscal year 2019 came from those three countries and the asylum agreement “confronts illegal migration at the source.”

“Under President [Donald] Trump’s leadership, DHS is using every available tool at its disposal to mitigate the ongoing humanitarian and security crisis at the border,” Acting Secretary Chad Wolf stated in the press release.

Earlier this month, Morgan criticized Biden’s plan to halt construction of the wall along the border with Mexico.

Speaking on Fox News, Morgan said that Biden himself stated he “will not construct another foot of wall” and that “could potentially cost taxpayers billions of dollars.”

Morgan said that the agency will have to settle agreements with border wall contractors and end up paying them for what they have already completed, including 270,000 tons of steel that has been manufactured or produced.

“That alone will directly cost taxpayers billions of dollars,” Morgan claimed.

“And more importantly, it will take an essential tool away from the border patrol to do their job to protect this country.”

Trump on the campaign trail in 2016 promised to erect a border wall, but it has not been without controversy.

In early December, a whistleblower lawsuit alleged that a company building a portion of the structure in San Diego illegally used armed Mexican nationals to provide security on site.

One subcontractor allegedly constructed a dirt road to speed up illegal operations in California, court documents unsealed by a federal judge stated.