We’ve officially made it through January, and Netflix is rewarding us all with a host of shows, specials and films all arriving on the streaming service in the coming month.

The Tinder Swindler tells the real-life story of a prolific conman who posed as a billionaire playboy on Tinder, and the women he targeted who then came together to uncover his true identity and bring him down.

But there’s a catch – each guest star isn’t given the script ahead of time, so they have no idea what’s about to happen to them, meaning they have to improvise their way through the case.

In case you have never got round to seeing the 2005 classic, it stars Jake Gyllenhaal and the late Heath Ledger, and is often talked about as marking a turning point for the advancement of queer cinema.

Locked away from the outside world, they meet a stream of potential suitors without actually ever getting to lay eyes on them. When a meaningful connection is made, they propose marriage and then lay their eyes on their fiancé for the first time.

Engaged and back in the real world, as the couples plan their wedding day, they will quickly discover whether they can turn their emotional connection into a physical one before the fast-approaching ceremony.

It’s 2045 and humans are reliant on AI. In a quiet residential area, four domestic robots suddenly decide to take their masters hostage in their own home and stage a coup…

A journalist with a lot to prove investigates the case of Anna Delvey, the Instagram-legendary German heiress who stole the hearts of New York’s social scene – as well as their money. But is Anna New York’s biggest con woman or simply the new portrait of the American dream?

Following on from his 2021 nationwide tour, the comedic star takes centre stage at the sold-out Hammersmith Apollo, exploring his teenage years, working in retail, relationship dynamics and much more.

After Wallander accepts an offer to rejoin the Major Crimes Unit in the second series of this popular spin-off, he is tasked with what seems to be a straightforward case: a hit-and-run outside a nightclub.

However, when the victim is found to be connected to an infamous murder case handled by Frida Rask eight years ago, Wallander quickly suspects that there is more to this incident than meets the eye.

The second season of Space Force picks up with General Naird and his underdog team having to prove their worth to a new administration while dealing with interpersonal challenges. Will the group come together or fall apart under the pressure...?