Nine people died after a speeding muscle car ran a red light in North Las Vegas, police say, with seven of the victims belonging to the same family.

Authorities in Nevada say that the six-vehicle crash happened when a speeding motorist in a Dodge Challenger ran the red light on Saturday afternoon at speeds upwards of 100mph.

The Challenger driver and his passenger died, as did seven other people from the other vehicles, according to police spokesman Alexander Cuevas, who called it a “chaotic event”. Four of the victims of the same family were children, according to authorities.

The coroner’s office identified the family members who were killed as five-year-old Fernando Yeshua Mejia, 10-year-old Adrian Zacarias, 13-year-old Lluvia Daylenn Zacarias, 15-year-old Bryan Axel Zacarias, 23-year-old Gabriel Mejia-Barrera, 25-year-old David Mejia-Barrera and 35-year-old Jose Zacarias-Caldera, according to the Las Vegas Review Journal.

“I lost all my family, my kids, 7 out of those lives lost, there are no words to describe my pain an suffering that I will not be able to hug my children again my brother and 2 step sons lost there lives also me and my husband are in so much pain we are asking you for help with out heart in hands anything would be helpful thank you,” wrote Erlinda Zacarias in a GoFundMe post.

Investigators say that in total 15 people were involved in the incident, with one still in a critical condition in hospital.

The victims of the crash range in age from young juveniles to middle-aged adults, say police.

“We have not seen a mass casualty traffic collision like this before,” Officer Cuevas said.

“Please make this a safer community by slowing down. Pay attention to speed limits.”

“Our thoughts and our prayers are with the families who are experiencing a tremendous and unnecessary loss due to a careless and senseless act,” said North Las Vegas Councilwoman Pamela Goynes-Brown.

“Our hearts ache for the families & loved ones of the 9 people killed in this senseless act – Kathy & I will be keeping them in our hearts & prayers during this very difficult time,” tweeted Nevada Governor Steve Sisolak.

The accident comes just weeks after another six-vehicle crash south of Las Vegas killed four people.

It is the deadliest event in the Las Vegas area since the October 2017 mass shooting killed 60 people.