A FORMER Miss USA titleholder is dead after falling from her high-rise apartment in New York City in a suspected suicide.

Police were called to Cheslie Kryst’s midtown apartment building around 7:13am.

Paramedics were also called but Kryst, who won the crown in 2019, was pronounced dead at the scene.

An investigation is underway, however, police believe the former beauty queen, who lived on the 9th floor, jumped to her death.

According to the New York Post, Kryst was last seen on the building’s terrace, which is on the 29th floor. The building is located at 350 West 42nd Street.

Chillingly, Kryst shared a photo of herself on Instagram just hours before her death with the caption, “May this day bring you rest and peace.”

“In devastation and great sorrow, we share the passing of our beloved Cheslie,” read a statement from Kryst’s family. “Her great light was one that inspired others around the world with her beauty and strength.

“She cares, she loved, she laughed and she shined. Cheslie embodied love and served others, whether through her work as an attorney or fighting for social justice, as Miss USA and as a host on EXTRA.

“But most importantly, as a daughter sister, friend mentor and colleague - we know her impact will live on.”

In the 2019 Miss USA pageant, Kryst took home the crown as Miss North Carolina. She was an attorney and later worked as a correspondent for Extra after winning the title.

Extra released a statement following the news of Kryst’s passing.

Read our Cheslie Kryst live blog for the very latest news and updates...

“Our hearts are broken. Cheslie was not just a vital part of our show, she was a beloved part of our Extra family and touched the entire staff. Our deepest condolences to all her family and friends.”

She used her platform as Miss USA to speak about criminal justice reform.

A note from Kryst was reportedly found Sunday morning, stating that all of her belongings would go to her mother. She was 30-years-old.

Kryst was born on April 28, 1991, to former Mrs. North Carolina, April Simpkins.

After graduating from Fort Mill High School in 2009, Kryst went on to earn her Bachelor's degree in marketing and human resource management from the University of South Carolina.

Kryst later returned to her home state of North Carolina, where she graduated from the Wake Forest University School of Law with a Juris Doctor and Master's of Business Administration in 2017.

She went on to practice law in both North and South Carolina, with a focus on civil litigation.

The former Miss USA winner also founded fashion blog White Collar Glam, which was used to help women dress professionally on the job.

As a teenager, Kryst was crowned Miss Freshman at her first high school, Northwestern. She also earned the honor of Miss Fort Mill High School after she transferred.

After taking home the crown in Reno, Nevada Kryst took a one-year leave from her job as a lawyer and represented the United States at the Miss Universe pageant in December of 2019.

For the latest news on this story keep checking back at Sun Online.

The-sun.com is your go-to destination for the best celebrity news, sport news, real-life stories, jaw-dropping pictures and must-see video.

Like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/TheSunUS and follow us from our main Twitter account at @TheUSSun.