HAPPY new tier! Tonight is going to be an odd New Year’s Eve for all of us.

But I am remaining positive and drumming up some fun for less money, as usual.

While Mrs Crunch today has you covered for food and booze, here are some cheap thrills to get you and your bubble into 2021.

POP STARS: Midnight might usually have involved a sing-song, hug and, for a lucky few, a kiss.

But as we are keeping the fun socially distanced this year without the same numbers of people, I’m thinking it is time to go big on party poppers instead.

There’s still time to pick up a bumper pack at Asda for £1.50.

VINO DIESEL: You may have seen Holly and Phil playing this game on This Morning, and I’m also a fan.

Grab a wine glass, fill it and then roll out loo roll on a table. Pop the glass on the end of the paper and drag it towards you without spilling any. You do a forfeit if the paper tears or you spill your wine.

LET'S GET QUIZZICAL: Think you know the hit 90s TV sitcom Friends like the back of your hand? Get down to Aldi today and hit the Specialbuys section for the ultimate Friends quiz game for £2.49.

If you’re feeling more energetic, “Twerk” or “Floss Pong” are also £3.99 each. Personally, I’ll stick with the quiz.

But with a multitude of free online quizzes, there is no reason why you can’t be the household quiz master and host your own.

Boost the tension with dramatic music clips from YouTube. Of course, you could just play a quiz from online.

VIDEO DRESS-UP: We will all be taking part in a few video calls to say “Happy New Year” to extended family. But make it a bit more fun with some of Poundland’s party range.

There is nothing like a party head-bopper to put a smile on someone’s face.

For the more adventurous, think video charades. Use wardrobe items and kitchen props to bring films and TV shows to life.

Kitchen foil is also a wonder for making props (and you can always un-scrunch and reuse).
• Prices correct at time of going to press. Deals and offers subject to availability

GET prepped for a January roast dinner with The Co-op’s freezer filler deal.

Buy roast potatoes, Yorkshire puds, parsnips and two desserts for £5, until tomorrow.

PICK up 28-day aged beef rump steak with mustard butter for just £2.79 this week at Lidl.

I WAS lusting over this £30.99 lamp at valuelights.co.uk.

But you can light up your room with a gorgeous lamp from Tu at Sainsbury’s, which is a very similar design. It is down from £12 to £9.

CLEAN up in the Boots sale. I love these West Lab Epsom salts, usually £4.99, now £2.49.

GET a running start on 2021, made easy with £5 off all sportswear at pourmoi.co.uk.

Play now to win £15,000 on The Sun Raffle

JOIN thousands of readers taking part in The Sun Raffle.

Every Sun Savers code you enter will earn you a ticket for our £15k monthly Raffle.

There is no limit to how many tickets you can collect.

So the more you enter, the better your chances.

To take part go to sunsavers.co.uk or open the Sun Savers app.

Then opt in to each month’s Raffle by clicking “Yes!” when prompted and start collecting the Sun Savers codes printed daily in the paper.

Every time you scan or enter a code into Sun Savers, you get a Raffle ticket in the £15k Raffle.

Download our easy Sun Savers app and quickly scan your code using your smartphone.

Or go online and enter your code at sunsavers.co.uk.

With Sun Savers, we give you the best hacks, deals and tips to save money every single day.

TO JOIN: Don’t worry, folks — joining takes just 30 seconds, in three steps.

GOT a story? RING The Sun on 0207 782 4104 or WHATSAPP on 07423720250 or EMAIL exclusive@the-sun.co.uk