CBS News addressed the ongoing targeting of Joe Rogan for censorship, suggesting that the podcast host is killing people by spreading COVID misinformation.

While claiming that they are in favour of free speech, the talking heads on CBS Mornings declared Rogan’s show to be “dangerous.”

“You have a First Amendment right to say what you want. You don’t have a First Amendment right to appear on a platform as large as Spotify, that’s the issue,” said one of the script readers.

After flashing up a graph showing rates of unvaccinated hospitalisations (figures grossly distorted by the lack of distinction between people admitted WITH and DUE to COVID) the gaggle agreed that the virus is a “life and death issue,” urging that Rogan should be silenced.

One of the bunch argued that you can’t just ‘turn off’ Rogan’s show because too many people won’t do that, they will continue to listen, suggesting that the only course of action is to completely silence Rogan.

CBS and the rest of the media (sponsored by Pfizer in many instances) are pumping out the exact same narrative regarding Rogan, while declaring that their own few thousand viewers are “more enlightened” than the millions that Rogan regularly pulls in, trouncing the ratings of even the most popular TV news outputs.

(TLB) published this article from Summit News as compiled and written by Steve Watson

Brand new merch now available! Get it at https://www.pjwshop.com/

In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. We need you to sign up for our free newsletter here. Support our sponsor – Turbo Force – a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. Also, we urgently need your financial support here.

Header featured image (edited) credit: Main entrance to CBS headquarters in New York City. (Photo by Erik McGregor/LightRocket via Getty Images)

The Liberty Beacon Project is now expanding at a near exponential rate, and for this we are grateful and excited! But we must also be practical. For 7 years we have not asked for any donations, and have built this project with our own funds as we grew. We are now experiencing ever increasing growing pains due to the large number of websites and projects we represent. So we have just installed donation buttons on our websites and ask that you consider this when you visit them. Nothing is too small. We thank you for all your support and your considerations … (TLB)

Comment Policy: As a privately owned web site, we reserve the right to remove comments that contain spam, advertising, vulgarity, threats of violence, racism, or personal/abusive attacks on other users. This also applies to trolling, the use of more than one alias, or just intentional mischief. Enforcement of this policy is at the discretion of this websites administrators. Repeat offenders may be blocked or permanently banned without prior warning.

Disclaimer: TLB websites contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available to our readers under the provisions of “fair use” in an effort to advance a better understanding of political, health, economic and social issues. The material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving it for research and educational purposes. If you wish to use copyrighted material for purposes other than “fair use” you must request permission from the copyright owner.