Two school safety officers were shot and killed at Bridgewater College in Virginia on Tuesday after the university reported an “active shooter” on campus, police and reports said.

The victims — described as a campus law-enforcement officer and a campus safety officer employed by the school — were shot at around 1:20 p.m. at the small private liberal-arts college about about an hour northwest of Charlottesville, authorities said.

A single male suspect was taken into custody approximately 35 minutes later, Virginia State Police said.

Bridgewater College President David Bushman identified the officers as John Painter and J.J. Jefferson in an e-mail to students, the local Daily News-Record reported.

“These officers were close friends, known to many of us as the ‘dynamic duo,'” Bushman wrote.

Alex Hulleman, a student who was on campus during the shooting, told the outlet he heard numerous shots ring out before the officers were killed.

“We looked out the window and we saw that two officers were down, and eventually they covered their bodies with sheets ,” said Hulleman, 21.

The student said he was in a classroom with about 20 other students when they heard “a bunch of shots” and immediately hit the floor.

“We heard some moaning, we heard some people talking, a couple of people barricaded the door, we stayed there for a while,” he said.

Bridgewater College told students to “shelter in place” around 1:25 p.m. and wrote on Twitter, “This is not a test.”

About 40 minutes after the incident was reported on the college’s Twitter account, the school notified students that an individual had been taken into custody.

“For additional safety purposes, law enforcement officials will be moving through buildings. Do not be alarmed. listen to officers’ instructions,” the school wrote about 20 minutes later.

Around 4:30 p.m., the school notified students that the shelter in place order had been lifted and there was no longer a threat.

An image taken by the local Daily News-Record showed 10 officers pointing their guns at one point at a shirtless man face-down on the ground. It wasn’t clear if the man was the suspect.

Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin wrote on Twitter that he is monitoring the situation.