Freedom Convoy to drive from CA to DC to protest vax mandates

The Facebook group “Convoy To DC” has already garnered 103.9K followers, up from 67,000 on Sunday, based on media reports. It was inspired by the massive demonstrations across Canada that have sparked similar protests around the world, notably in Australia and the Netherlands. While the group has not set a date for the protest, its leaders suggested it will start in California and travel to Washington, D.C.

In Canada, thousands protested the mandates, while in the States, COVID cases plummeted 30% over the past week. While some experts refer to the distant future and vaguely talk of the COVID crisis ending sometime this year, many others are expressing the opinion that they are done with COVID. Others are asking: “Are We at the End of the Pandemic?”

The Freedom Convoys are certainly showing that the people are fed up with the COVID political oppression, and they want to get back to what was normal before the crisis.

The Liberty Beacon Project is now expanding at a near exponential rate, and for this we are grateful and excited! But we must also be practical. For 7 years we have not asked for any donations, and have built this project with our own funds as we grew. We are now experiencing ever increasing growing pains due to the large number of websites and projects we represent. So we have just installed donation buttons on our websites and ask that you consider this when you visit them. Nothing is too small. We thank you for all your support and your considerations … (TLB)

Comment Policy: As a privately owned web site, we reserve the right to remove comments that contain spam, advertising, vulgarity, threats of violence, racism, or personal/abusive attacks on other users. This also applies to trolling, the use of more than one alias, or just intentional mischief. Enforcement of this policy is at the discretion of this websites administrators. Repeat offenders may be blocked or permanently banned without prior warning.

Disclaimer: TLB websites contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available to our readers under the provisions of “fair use” in an effort to advance a better understanding of political, health, economic and social issues. The material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving it for research and educational purposes. If you wish to use copyrighted material for purposes other than “fair use” you must request permission from the copyright owner.

Disclaimer: The information and opinions shared are for informational purposes only including, but not limited to, text, graphics, images and other material are not intended as medical advice or instruction. Nothing mentioned is intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.