Bolton Wanderers made it four wins in a roll in League One with a 2-0 victory at home against Cambridge United.

After a host of chances where Wanderers should have taken the lead in the first half, they did just that when Amadou Bakayoko slotted home before half-time.

Bolton weathered pressure from the U's in the first 15 minutes after the break as Mark Bonner's side sought a route back into the encounter.

But Dapo Afolayan made the points secure with a great solo effort to ensure Wanderers went four wins on the bounce and indeed with four clean sheets in a row which has lifted them back into the top half of the table.

After the game, Ian Evatt gave his immediate reaction and here's what he had to say.

People are going to begin to wonder now aren’t they…

“People can wonder all they want but for now we just focus on our next game which is Morecambe on Saturday. I think first half that’s as good as we’ve been for a long, long time, barring the goals.

“I think Marlon could have had three or four himself and Dion missed a couple of chances but I thought our football was excellent. The way we moved the ball with speed, ran in behind with speed, made the game stretched and they struggled to cope with it.

"The only thing missing really was the goals and fortunately we got the goal before half time and it kind of settled us down a little bit, but made things more difficult for ourselves second half.

“Some moments of real quality, like Dapo’s second goal was excellent and then Jon and Sadds came on and also showed what they can do. Obviously with Kyle available Saturday, Kieran back available Saturday, I’m going to have a few headaches but bring them on.”

Has it gone better than what you could have expected in the last four games?

“No, I still think there’s loads more to come, I’m obviously really pleased, four clean sheets and four victories, but I still think there’s loads we can tighten up on. I think obviously we have to be more clinical and ruthless first half, but second half we made the game a bit transitional.

"We didn’t need to do it and we needed to have more control, and still trying to score when the game is already won and giving them opportunities.

“Some of our organisation from wide free-kicks in particular wasn’t great and wasn’t pleasing, but I’m picking the bones out of it there. It’s a good win and a good performance.”

Has it all been down to the recruitment in January?

“It’s a mixture of everything. We’ve got some senior players back that we’ve really missed, Gethin (Jones) in particular, we’ve really missed him, not only him as a player but him as a leader as well.

"We’ve rejigged the group. We’ve brought in some real quality, some speed, some energy and all of a sudden, we look a really good team again, but we’ve been in this game long enough to know things change really quickly.

“We’ve gone from a really painful time to a really exciting team, but I’ve got to say credit to the fans tonight. After Saturday it would have been difficult for the players to get going again but the atmosphere they created was fantastic.

"You can really start to feel that connection again between players and fans. You’ve got Rico and Geth doing the Icelandic thing at the end which is great and good to see.

“This place can be a real fortress when the fans make it like that and the players perform like that. I thought some of the football was exquisite tonight but there’s lots more to work on.”

A bit of history for James Trafford with four clean sheets, which has never been done before in the first four games by a Bolton keeper?

“James will have that record, but for me it’s a team record and it’s a team culture. We have a responsibility to defend back to front and attack back to front.

"All players are involved in the game at all times in this system and the way we play and our philosophy. You have to stay active and you have to do your job defensively and going forwards as well, so it’s a team goal but I’m really pleased for young James.”