Manchester United stepped up their preparations for a return to action in Monday's training session.

Most of the United squad have enjoyed a break from the intense season this past week during the Premier League's winter break, though Fred, Edinson Cavani and Alex Telles were all called away, and remain on, international duty.

Refreshed after spending time on holiday, the majority of the team returned to Carrington on Monday ahead of their first game back in the FA Cup against Middlesbrough on Friday.

Ralf Rangnick put his team through their paces and here are four things we spotted:

Paul Pogba wasn't expected to be back in training until the end of February due to his thigh injury but Rangnick was left stunned by his miraculous return to the pitch ahead of the victory against West Ham.

The Frenchman wasn't ready to make his comeback in the match but a further two weeks of training and recovery means he is in contention to be back in the team on Friday.

Pogba was looking sharp in the session and must be chomping at the bit to play his first game under the new manager.

Tahith Chong was back in United training for the first time since the summer on Monday.

The Dutch winger had been enjoying himself on loan at Birmingham City but suffered a ruptured thigh tendon which required surgery in early November and put the brakes on his season.

Chong returned to United for his rehabilitation and is now ahead of schedule on his road to recovery as he returned to the field to work one-on-one with a fitness coach, though he is still a couple of weeks away from a return to full training.

He has been missed by Birmingham but is expected to return to the Midlands this month to see out the rest of the campaign.

With Donny van de Beek joining Anthony Martial and Amad out of the door on transfer deadline day, some of the club's promising youngsters were drafted into training on Monday to make up the numbers.

As well as Chong, exciting left-back Alvaro Fernandez was involved in the session, as was teenage centre-back Will Fish, who has recently been recalled from a loan spell at Stockport County.

Both may be hoping to be involved against Championship side Middlesbrough.

Rashford looks to keep form going

While many footballers may have welcomed the rest over the last two weeks, the break couldn't have come at a much worse time for Rashford.

The striker has endured a rotten run of form following on from the great impact he made upon his return from injury, going without a goal since October.

But an emphatic finish to seal a victory over Brentford and then a last gasp winner against West Ham saw him score in two successive games and look rejuvenated.

It's a shame the break has interrupted his run but, hopefully, he can continue the hot streak when football resumes and he looked focused in training to ensure it does.

Sign up to our United newsletter so you never miss an update from Old Trafford this s eason.