Kevin-Prince Boateng may have already provided the most telling answer to a question that has divided football fans across the planet for 15 years — Cristiano Ronaldo or Lionel Messi?

For those with Manchester United connections, you would expect a heavy nudge towards the Portuguese striker, but an argument for each player can be countered with an equally compelling verdict.

Ronaldo first touched down at United in 2003, going on to score 118 goals during 292 matches in that initial spell, while he also won three Premier League titles and a Champions League in 2008. This summer he returned and has already scored 14 goals this season to show there is plenty left in the tank.

As for Messi, his own summer transfer to PSG was followed up by a record-extending seventh Ballon d'Or triumph - although there was some controversy over that decision.

Both players missed out to Robert Lewandowski when it came to The Best FIFA awards.

The whole Ronaldo vs Messi debate has resurfaced as a result, but did Boateng sum it up perfectly either side of a four-game spell at the Nou Camp in early 2019?

During an interview with SPOX that was reported by Marca in 2017, former AC Milan and Barcelona man Boateng said: "For young people who are football players, Ronaldo should be the best in the world.

"He is the best example to look at because he trains to the fullest and has [great] talent. He works like a madman and he is passionate with everything he does.

"He always wants to be the best. He always wants to be first in everything, so, for a player who is just starting, the one to look at should be him because he is perfect.

"Ronaldo makes all of this happen in this world, but only in this world.

"In what transcends this world, the best is Messi, because he is incredible, he does things that nobody can do.

Who is the greatest? Have your say in the comments section below.

"I do not see him in this world. Ronaldo dominates this world and Messi is above everything else."

Speaking to DAZN in 2020, he added: "Training with Messi left me speechless. I had always said Cristiano Ronaldo was the best in the world, but Messi is something else. He's not normal. While training with him, I felt inadequate for the first time in my career. He was doing incredible things. I felt like saying; 'I'm done, I'm going to quit playing'."

Sign up to our United newsletter so you never miss an update from Old Trafford this season.