Some colourful lights around a doorway are your signal that luck is with you. Yes, you can say what is in your heart.

A promise you may have given up on hearing is so close now.

Your chart is strong on home, work and friend togetherness, no matter how much distance is between you.

The way someone says your name is the first factor you pick up on. Then total love is fast to follow.

You can start the coming year with a great sense of looking forward.

Sticking to rules is a Taurus skill and your unique take on this helps others find the fun.

Pluto, planet of disruption, can lead to some sudden and super-rewarding introductions.

These include new names and faces, but also music, art or exercise that can reshape your ideas for the year ahead.

So welcome everything new with a big, warm Gemini smile.

Love and the law are linked.

Upfront Mars is strong in your ambition sector, while the moon rules your own sign. You can be tougher but also more trusting than ever before.

You are prepared to take risks and put your deep feelings and skills out there.

As the moon moves to your values zone, big questions are on the cards.

Maybe you want to be “good” and start some major changes, but your chart suggests saving today for celebrations and sharing your time and energy with people who really matter.

By the evening, feelings that have felt a mystery to you are so clear. Yes, you can act on them. Make them count.

Friends and family are so important to you. But today you thrive on solo time to think through commitments in your life and how you can adjust these.

When the same call happens twice, with very different results, it is your cue to act.

Mars boosts physical power, so body language is off the scale.

This is a great moment for career promises but you do not need to make them to anyone but yourself yet.

Signs are strong that work can take an intriguing turn – and sooner than you think.

You can also lead loved ones on a progress path and focus on a future that reboots family bonds.

All those limits you have put on your mind, and maybe your heart, are ready to be stretched as some special bells ring.

As the moon shifts into your sector of emotional success, your options increase.

Single? When a story pops up in the news, you can comment in a way that changes everything.

What starts as a friendly celebration message can switch to something special, so keep your mind and heart open.

Follow where the moon leads you, from deep potential doubts to a new, sunny understanding of what you need.

Meeting the real you is just the start of a day of discovery.

You hold a tender heart in your hand and now you see who it belongs to. Yes, this is a surprise but one that feels so perfect.

Pluto may try to stir up negative feelings about a shared event but you have strength to stay positive.

Some words you hear in the dark light up a new passion path.

You have put in a lot of effort to a partnership, or maybe a parent-child bond. But as the moon moves on, you are ready to stand back, release control and see where this takes you.

If love is strong, you feel the foundation that supports you.

Single? A fancy dress outfit is a clue that passion is close.

Keep plans flexible as some surprising names can pop into your inbox, with even more surprising messages.

But it is words you send that mean the most, as you have been thinking about them for months.

Saturn brings back stability to friends or workmates and puts you at the centre of an idea.

GOT a story? RING The Sun on 0207 782 4104 or WHATSAPP on 07423720250 or EMAIL exclusive@the-sun.co.uk