The state of Washington told Black Lives Matter in early January that it must “immediately cease” fundraising in the state because of the charity's lack of financial transparency, but it has ignored the order, according to records obtained by the Washington Examiner.

The Washington Secretary of State Corporations and Charities Division notified BLM in a Jan. 5 letter that it could face fines up to $2,000 for each donation it solicits and receives from Washington residents until it submits records detailing its financial activities. Despite the notice, BLM has continued to accept contributions from the state's residents as recently as Monday evening.



“Please note that a violation of the Act is also a violation of the consumer Protection Act … and could result in the imposition of injunctions and civil penalties of up to $2,000 per violation,” the Washington notice to BLM said. "Any organization that solicits and/or collects contributions in violation of the Act and CPA will be reported to the Office of the Attorney General’s Consumer Protection Division for further action.”

A Washington resident confirmed to the Washington Examiner on Monday evening that he was able to donate $1 to the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation, the legal entity that represents the national BLM movement. BLM processed the resident's donation Monday evening despite the fact that the person provided his Washington address when he submitted the donation using BLM's online donation button.

BLM'S MILLIONS GO UNACCOUNTED FOR AFTER LEADERS QUIETLY JUMPED SHIP

Patrick Reed, a public and government affairs manager for the Corporations and Charities Division, told the Washington Examiner that charities like BLM that are involuntarily closed by the state could face substantial fines for soliciting online donations from Washington residents.

Reed added that since his office has no authority to hold rule-breaking charities accountable, he would refer BLM to the Washington attorney general, who has the authority to issue warnings and fines to violators.

"It's so hard for us because with us being ministerial, we have zero enforcement authority," Reed said, adding that enforcement actions are typically spurred by complaints submitted to the attorney general's office by members of the public.

BLM did not return a request for comment.

BLM's charity registration is also out of compliance in Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Virginia.

Paul Kamenar, counsel for conservative watchdog group the National Legal and Policy Center, said his group is preparing a complaint against BLM.

"The National Legal and Policy Center will be filing a formal complaint with the Attorney General of Washington to impose the maximum penalties on BLMGNF for their flagrant and repeated violations of the charity disclosure laws in that state and it seems in many others," Kamenar said.

BLM has come under intense scrutiny over its lack of transparency surrounding its operations and finances after the Washington Examiner reported Thursday that the charity's two known board members won't say who controls its $60 million bankroll.

WHERE IS BLM'S OFFICE? IT'S A MYSTERY

BLM hasn't had a known executive director since former leader Patrisse Cullors resigned amid scrutiny of her finances in May 2021. Cullors appointed two activists to take over the charity when she left, but the replacements quietly announced in September that they never took the job because of disagreements with BLM.

Last Tuesday, the Washington Examiner attempted to request a copy of BLM's 2020 form 990 tax return at the Los Angeles address BLM previously provided to the IRS, only to be told by a security guard at the location that there had never been a BLM office at the location.

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM THE WASHINGTON EXAMINER

An unidentified BLM representative informed the Washington Examiner on Thursday that the group does not maintain a "permanent office" and offered to mail a copy of its 990 within two weeks.