Manchester City have been handed a huge boost in their chase of Erling Haaland, with reports in Spain suggesting the striker isn’t a priority for Real Madrid.

Haaland is, of course, set to be one of the biggest plotlines of the summer transfer window, with Europe’s top clubs vying for his signature as his released clause comes into effect at Borussia Dortmund.

Madrid are seen as the favourites to land the Norwegian, while City, Manchester United, Barcelona and Bayern Munich are among the other clubs linked with a move.

Recent reports seem to have swung the pendulum further in Madrid’s favour, although it has now been suggested the Spanish giants could be looking elsewhere.

Sign up to get even more from our Man City coverage We want your views, Blues. You can become even more involved with our Man City coverage by signing up. This will unlock a whole host of things - including joining the comments and taking part in our special Q&As, where you can speak directly to our reporters about what’s happening at the Etihad Stadium this week and beyond. Click here to get started.

Radio host Josep Pedrerol, who is reportedly close to Real president Florentino Perez, has suggested the club are instead focusing their efforts on Kylian Mbappe, and may not have the funds to sign Haaland as well.

“It could change,” Pedrerol said on his El Chiringuito show (via Teamtalk ).

“But the objective is Kylian Mbappe, not trying to get both of them in May. He isn’t a priority for Real Madrid. It’s Mbappe, Mbappe, Mbappe.”

The claim would provide a major boost to City, who are seen by many as the favourites should Haaland choose to move to the Premier League.

Elsewhere, reports in Italy suggest City are ready to offer Juventus forward Paulo Dybala a contract this summer.

The Argentine sees his deal with the Serie A giants expire this summer, meaning he will be available on a free transfer.

City are among the sides to have been linked with a move for the 28-year-old, who is said to be unhappy with the offers made by Juve to keep him in Turin.

According to Gazzetta dello Sport (via SempreInter ), City could be ready to swoop in and make Dybala an offer to move to the Etihad.

They will face competition though, with Inter Milan also said to be interested in making the forward an offer soon.

Sign up to our City newsletter so you never miss an update from the Etihad Stadium this season.