Gardeners have been warned to 'think twice' before putting a common plant in their gardens, after it caused over £100k worth of damage.

Chinese moso bamboo may look pretty, but if not looked after and managed correctly, it can wreak absolute havoc.

One person was forced to dig up the entire ground floor of their property after their Chinese moso bamboo plant got out of control.

Now they are warning other gardeners.

READ MORE: Mum threatened with £75 fine for leaving bin lid open '5cm to 6cm'

The invasive plant is highly aggressive and is actually one of the fastest-growing plants on the planet. Chinese moso bamboo can grow almost a metre in a single day.

One homeowner had thousands of pounds worth of damage after the plant spread from a neighbouring property onto their own, according to invasive plant specialists Environet UK.

The bamboo formed part of a border hedge or screen which was planted directly into the ground.

It then travelled across the boundary and under the concrete ground floor of the house before bursting through the floor.

The plant then grew up through the cavity walls of the property, says the Express.

If the plant had been left untreated, it could have forced the wall apart.

The ground floor of the property had to be dug up with hundreds of metres of bamboo rhizome excavated.

The removal of the plant and the damage caused resulted in a home insurance claim exceeding £100,000.

Although Japanese knotweed is often viewed as the most troublesome plant for homeowners, bamboo has the potential to be even more damaging if left to grow.

The roots of a bamboo plant can travel in excess of 10 metres and can push through bricks, drains, cavity walls, patios and can exploit any cracks or weaknesses in concrete.

Most species of bamboo are invasive if left to run wild.

However, the “running” varieties are particularly potent as they send out lateral shoots beneath the ground which can then emerge in neighbouring gardens and underneath fences, patios, sheds and properties.

Some varieties of bamboo can also grow to be five metres in height which can block sunlight and cause problems for neighbouring houses.

Nic Seal, founder and MD of Environet UK, said this particular situation is the “worst case of bamboo encroachment and damage to property he had ever seen in this country”.

He continued: “Through no fault of their own, the homeowners have suffered significant financial cost, stress and inconvenience, being required to vacate their home for several months.

“The truth is, most bamboos are invasive if planted directly into the ground and left to their own devices.

“It’s unfortunate that bamboo is still sold at garden centres and plant nurseries around the country with little warning about the risks.

“It would be a good deal less popular if people realised that within a few years they could be dealing with an extensive infestation that can spread across boundaries into neighbouring properties resulting in legal disputes and serious damage to homes which can be extremely costly to repair.

“Once it’s on the run, the only way to deal with bamboo decisively is to excavate the root ball and dig every long rhizome out of the ground.

“I would urge anyone considering planting bamboo to think twice, and if you already have it growing in your garden, take action now to ensure it’s properly contained.”

Dr Peter Fitzsimons of the Property Care Association (PCA), a trade body representing invasive weed control contractors and consultants said bamboos are “woody” grass that have commercial importance in their native home.

However, Dr Fitzsimons said in the UK the plant has characteristics similar to those of an “alien invasive species”.

Some of those characteristics include being “fast spreading, dominating native vegetation and resistant to natural predators such as insects or fungi.

He added: “We have been calling for some time for the many species of bamboo to be added to Schedule 9 of the Wildlife & Countryside Act to enable effective regulation.”

Shockingly, a survey of over 2,000 people carried out by Environet in conjunction with YouGov in 2021 showed that only 11 percent would not plant bamboo because of the damage it can cause to buildings, patios and driveways.

This suggests awareness of the risks is still relatively low in the UK.

How to avoid bamboo from spreading:

Choose a clumping variety such as Bambusa or Chusquea, rather than a running variety.

Always plant bamboo in a container or strong pot, never directly into the ground.

Prune bamboo hard and regularly, at least every spring, to keep it in check.

It is possible to treat a bamboo infestation using a technique known as the “energy depletion method”.

This involves repeatedly cutting the canes to ground level before new leaf appears which can take many years with no guarantee of success.

Bamboo can be excavated in a matter of days with professional help and a five-year guarantee.