Coronation Street fans were in stitches over a Line of Duty comparisons as PC Craig Tinker declared himself a bent copper.

Viewers have seen Craig in deep after discovering that his girlfriend Faye Windass had been involved in a hit and run accident.

A pensioner who Faye had knocked over while having a driving lesson supervised by a tipsy Emma Brooker died after the girls took him home following the accident.

READ MORE: Katie McGlynn channels Netflix drama Emily in Paris as she's reunited with screen husband in Salford

After returning to his flat to check on Ted they discovered that their new friend had passed away in his chair.

Faye and Emma panicked and left him for his grandson to find.

But they left a trail of evidence including a false nail in his sink and Emma signed for a parcel, and Craig had no idea he had been using Ted's crutch after suffering an injury.

PC Tinker agreed to keep Faye’s dark secret to stop her from going back to prison.

The teen was recently released on bail after receiving a three year sentence for attacking Adam Barlow thinking he was her rapist boss Ray Crosby.

But Craig told Faye he is now a corrupt police officer and announced he had made the decision to quit the force in Monday night's double bill.

Corrie fans took to Twitter to joke about a 'crossover' of the soap with hit BBC police drama Line of Duty about police anti-corruption unit AC-12 and the hunt for the elusive criminal mastermind known as 'H.'

@corriepodcast joked: "BREAKING! Line of Duty Series 7 will see AC12 investigating the corruption of a Weatherfield PC, the death of a man named Ted, and a missing packet of ginger nuts."

@ScribensCheryl mocked: "Back to Line of Corrie Duty with Craig the bent b*****d."

Love Corrie? Sign up to our new Coronation Street newsletter to never miss a thing Get a weekly round-up of Coronation Street news, spoilers and fan chat direct to your inbox. The newsletter will land in your inbox on a Friday and bring you the highlights of everything we've written about Weatherfield that week. It will include the latest action both on and off the cobbles, what you thought about the soap's top storylines and what the stars are up to away from the set. Plus much more! So you'll never have to miss a thing. To sign up simply follow this link and tick the box next to MEN Coronation Street.

@allaboutjoules said with a laughing emoji: "Craig going full Line of Duty in #Corrie Oh dear! I have seen it all now!"

@AntMelia94 tweeted: "Corrupt cop Craig has gotten #Corrie mixed up with Line Of Duty."

@terrettcorey asked: "Line of Duty and Corrie crossover soon with Corrupt Craig?! "

And @RyanGTweetsTV said with laughing and applause emojis: "Loving all the Line of Duty tweets tonight during Corrie."