Pfizer and its partner, BioNTech, asked the Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday to authorize two doses of their coronavirus vaccine for children younger than five while the companies continue to research whether three doses would be more effective for that age group.

In a highly unusual move, federal regulators pressed the companies to submit a request for emergency authorization, even though two doses failed to produce the hoped-for immune response among children aged two to four in a clinical trial. Only children between six months and two years old demonstrated an immune response comparable to that of older teenagers and young adults, the standard for a successful trial. The doses were one-tenth the strength of adult doses.

The request, which applies to children six months to four years old, comes as the highly contagious Omicron variant has led to many more infections. The under-five group includes about 19 million children, the only Americans not yet eligible for vaccination.

The disappointing trial results, announced in December, prompted the companies to test a third low dose of the shot in the age group. But rather than wait until the end of March for those to come in, federal regulators decided to encourage Pfizer to apply for authorization of a two-dose regimen in order to get a head start on the vaccination effort.

In meetings about the strategy, government officials argued that two doses had proven safe, even if they failed to meet the criteria of producing an immune response in the whole age group, according to multiple people familiar with the discussions. If children get an initial injection this month, some officials reasoned, they could be ready for a third dose by the time researchers obtain what they hope will be successful results from the three-dose trial. The first two doses would be spaced three weeks apart, followed by a third dose two months after the second.

Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement: “Ultimately, we believe that three doses of the vaccine will be needed for children 6 months through 4 years of age to achieve high levels of protection against current and potential future variants. If two doses are authorized, parents will have the opportunity to begin a Covid-19 vaccination series for their children while awaiting potential authorization of a third dose.”

The companies’ study of younger children was designed to measure immune responses, not the vaccine’s efficacy in preventing virus infections or severe cases of Covid-19. But because some children in the trial became infected, researchers picked up indications of how well the vaccine worked to stave off the virus, two people familiar with the study said. A similar development occurred in the companies’ study of its vaccine in 5- to 11-year-olds, which overlapped with a crushing wave of the Delta variant.

One person familiar with the most recent trial data, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that those aged two to four years who were given shots were infected at a rate 57 percent lower than the children in the placebo group. Children aged six months to two years who got shots were infected at a rate 50 percent lower than the placebo group.

The data suggested that the vaccine was better able to protect the children against infection from Delta than from Omicron — just as with adults. There were fewer than 100 cases of symptomatic infections overall, and it was not clear how wide the margins of error were, the person said.

The F.D.A.’s change from its usual process immediately raised questions among some members of its expert advisory committee on vaccines. The committee’s recommendations are not binding, but are usually followed. An emergency meeting of the group has been scheduled for Feb. 15.

“It doesn’t make sense we would approve a two-dose vaccine on the assumption the third dose would make up for deficiencies of the two doses,” said Dr. Paul A. Offit, a panelist and director of the Vaccine Education Center at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. He also questioned why the company and F.D.A. would still need to pursue a three-dose regimen if two doses are protective.

Dr. H. Cody Meissner, another panelist and chief of the pediatric infectious diseases division at Tufts Children’s Hospital, said he was open-minded about the approach. “We all want to vaccinate children,” he said.

But he added: “I worry a little about the numbers,” and whether Pfizer’s clinical trial was big enough to reveal rare side effects. The trial included about 1,200 children under the age of two, and about 1,500 between the ages of two and four, according to people familiar with the study’s design.

The panel’s decision “will partly depend on what are the rates of hospitalization and severe disease in this age group,” Dr. Meissner said, “and what our sense is in terms of potential harm.”

If the F.D.A. moves ahead with authorization, a separate advisory panel to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will meet and vote on whether to support the action. Dr. Rochelle P. Walensky, the agency’s director, will then decide whether the C.D.C. should recommend the shots as government policy.

In meetings about the plan, government officials argued that an unorthodox approach was necessary to combat the pandemic. Even though young children are far less likely than adults to get severely ill, some officials reasoned, Omicron has intensified the threat of Covid-19 in children under five and could be followed by equally or more worrisome variants.

On the other hand, with the Omicron wave peaking in many parts of the country, outside advisers to the federal regulatory agencies may be less willing to rush the process. The rate at which children under 5 with Covid were admitted to hospitals began rising in about mid-December, then peaked in early January, according to C.D.C. data. But as of Jan. 22, the weekly data still showed that more than seven in 100,000 children in that age group were admitted to hospitals — more than three times the rate of hospital admissions for children and teens aged 5 to 17.

Dr. Moira Szilagyi, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, said in a statement Tuesday that she was encouraged that “we may be one step closer” to shots for the youngest children.

“This month, we reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases among children since the pandemic’s onset. More than 3.5 million new cases in children were reported January 2022 alone,” she said. She urged “a transparent and data-driven process” in handling Pfizer’s request.