This surprised me as I have a strong interest in the direction of the college, evidenced by my application, and this person will at some level become my supervisor and control how resources are allocated. As a faculty member, I have no input into the hiring decision; that decision is made by the college dean and upper administration, and I no longer have a conflict because I have been removed as a candidate. I admit I am offended; it is as if there is a concern that I might not behave professionally in a public forum. I assure you that I have no history which suggests my behavior would be anything but exemplary. Is there any ethical reason that I should recuse myself from participation? Name Withheld

The reference to a conflict of interest, I agree, is puzzling. Given that you’re no longer in contention for the job, the only stakes you have in what happens are the legitimate concerns of a member of the faculty. What private benefit would come to you from undermining (or advancing) a candidate? Talk of recusal here seems just confused. If the implication is, as you suggest, that your resentment at not having been made a finalist would lead you to be discourteous to candidates, you’d be justified in taking offense. I would write back and say that, because you are not aware of any conflict of interest, you are not going to recuse yourself from the normal involvements of a faculty member in meeting candidates for the deanship. And you might want to discuss what happened with representatives from your union (should you be represented by one).

My friend had her knee replaced. My husband is a radiologist. Despite his reluctance to be involved, my friend often sends her X-rays to him. Recently she sent a set of X-rays to me, and I forwarded them to him. He immediately noticed her femur had been “cracked” through the marrow, suggesting the surgeon made an intraoperative mistake. He checked with a colleague, who agreed this was an unusual finding and is likely wrongful.

My husband is furious with me for involving him and refuses to allow me to inform my friend of his interpretation. But neither her doctor or the facility have disclosed anything, and her recovery will be longer and possibly more painful. Do I have any obligation to my friend to tell her what I know, or even just to suggest that she should go over the X-ray in person with the surgeon? Name Withheld

What should we make of the fact that your husband looked at the images and took the trouble to confirm his suspicions with a colleague, but wants to keep the patient from learning that she may have a problem? It sounds as if he was willing only to provide reassurance and doesn’t want to get entangled in a case of malpractice. He would share good news but not bad — and that’s not a choice he can ethically make.

A patient is entitled to seek a second opinion in the interpretation of diagnostic evidence. It’s true that your husband isn’t your friend’s doctor, but he’s evidently a medical professional qualified to render a judgment, and so was the colleague with whom he consulted. She was taking advantage of your friendship, but in a not-unreasonable way. Your husband would have been within his rights to refuse to look at the post-op X-rays. Yet once he analyzed them, he had a piece of information relevant to your friend’s treatment that she was entitled to have, too.

If you’re a doctor who has grounds for suspecting that a patient has not been informed of facts pertinent to her care, you have, as the American Medical Association agrees, a duty to report it to the relevant clinical authorities. Given that the facility where the surgery was performed has not disclosed this problem to your friend, there’s reason for concern that she’s being treated without a proper understanding of her situation. (Female patients are at particular risk of the kind of fracture you describe, as it happens.) Medical experts I’ve consulted do say the condition could have implications for clinical treatment and management. And if her doctors are aware of the problem but haven’t told her, they’d be violating the ethical standards of their profession.