Lately, though, Rockström notes, we have started to see weather events that are not just extremes but “super-extremes.” We’re talking 100 degrees Fahrenheit in the Arctic; a polar vortex freezing Texas; some areas of Germany getting nearly double the amount of rain in a two-day period in July than usually falls in the whole month; and cracks and fissures on the Thwaites Glacier in western Antarctica — which is about the size of Britain — prompting fears that it could break up, which alone could cause nearly two feet of sea level rise.

According to a long-term study by Rockström and fellow earth system scientists, soon to be completed, there is mounting evidence that these super-extremes are at risk of becoming even more frequent and severe — because our earth system car is running out of the spare tires, shock absorbers, airbags and other buffers to offset our behaviors.

And what is really scary, says Rockström, is that the 2015 Paris climate accord was founded in part on calculations that now look overly optimistic. It was thought that the most severe effects of climate change could be avoided if we kept the rise in the global average temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and, ideally, below 1.5 degrees, above preindustrial levels. But key earth systems are showing signs of being destabilized right now at only a 1.1-degree rise.

“We are seeing more and more evidence that the planet is more fragile than we thought,” Rockström told me. “We are in danger of losing key systems that maintained our planetary resilience.”

A similar threat applies to U.S. politics. Our political system over the years had all kinds of built-in institutional, media and normative bumpers, airbags and spare tires to protect us if a corrupt, or authoritarian-leaning, or utterly incompetent, party or leader emerged.

The most important buffer was a commons, or sacred space, that we never formalized but always knew was there — a neutral zone outside of politics, where leaders of both major parties were expected to (and usually did) act in the national interest. When Richard Nixon threatened the system, it was key Republican senators who told him he had to go.

Our other two vital shock absorbers were truth and trust. We could always count on enough of us trusting enough of us to collaborate to do big hard things together. And we could always count on enough of us embracing the same truth to collectively navigate our way out of any crisis.