The loss of popular appeal is bad for any democratic leader. But for Mr. Johnson, whose success in securing the leadership of the Conservative Party depended on his electoral charm, it’s disastrous. The triumph of December 2019 feels like an age ago. Two years of chaotic government marked by tax increases, embarrassing policy reversals and political misjudgments have caused many Conservative legislators to doubt whether Mr. Johnson could lead them to victory in a future election. If he can’t, they reason, there’s no point in his staying in place.

Ominously, Mr. Johnson has bled support from all wings and generations of his party. A large chunk of those elected for the first time in 2019 — who owe their seats to Mr. Johnson — have spent this month openly plotting against him, with around 20 of these legislators thought to have sent in letters of no confidence. And Conservative grandees with nothing to lose have piled on, with David Davis, a former cabinet minister, telling Mr. Johnson, “In the name of God, go.”

Discontent has been brewing for a while. Legislators have long chafed at Mr. Johnson’s stubborn tendency to go it alone, his lack of interest in building party unity and the chaotic way in which his government is run. Major missteps — such as a resistance to providing poor pupils with free meals over the school holidays — alienated some of his supporters in Parliament. Many of them waited in vain to be offered promotions that ultimately went to the prime minister’s long-term allies. By the time the latest scandal broke, they had acquired a taste for treachery and rebellion.

Mr. Johnson has spent much of the past two weeks attempting to persuade wavering legislators to stick by him. The Gray report, despite being stripped back to avoid prejudicing the police inquiry, will put such support to the test. Even if Mr. Johnson manages to ride out the storm, his troubles are far from over. The investigation by the Metropolitan Police, which could involve the humiliation of the prime minister and his staff being interviewed as suspects, will be deeply damaging. And local elections in May will give the country’s voters a chance to display their anger.

Back in November, Mr. Johnson was musing aloud about the fall of Rome. “When things start to go wrong,” he said, “they can go wrong at extraordinary speed.” He had no idea how right he was.