Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who has been criticizing truckers involved in a “Freedom Convoy” protest against the cross-border vaccine mandate, once urged citizens to ‘thank a trucker’ and “help them however you can” during the pandemic.

A recently surfaced tweet from late March of 2020 shows Trudeau’s supportive words for those working in the trucking industry.

“While many of us are working from home, there are others who aren’t able to do that,” he wrote. “like the truck drivers who are working day and night to make sure our shelves are stocked.”

Trudeau added the hashtag ‘ThankATrucker’ and urged Canadians to support them “and help them however you can” in trying times “for everything they’re doing.”

Tens of thousands of truck drivers formed a caravan, known as the “Freedom Convoy,” to draw attention to their cause and protest new vaccine mandates.

The massive protest arrived in Ottawa this past weekend where they were joined by thousands of protesters on the streets demanding the repeal of vaccine mandates and other COVID restrictions.

Trudeau, now armed with a very different attitude about those selfless, thankless heroes who keep Canadians fed, slammed the truckers for allegedly spreading “hateful rhetoric,” expressing “violence toward fellow citizens,” and being “an insult to memory and truth.”

He and his family then were moved to an ‘undisclosed location’ according to the CBC, citing “security concerns,” as the truckers arrived.

From that secret location, Trudeau insisted that Canadians not be “intimidated” by the truckers whom he accused of delivering “threats, violence, or hatred.”

Manitoba’s most prominent federal Tory, Portage—Lisgar MP Candice Bergen, urged Trudeau to meet with the truckers, something he has insisted he is unwilling to do.

“Contrary to some, there are thousands of passionate, patriotic, and peaceful Canadians on the Hill right now, who just want to be heard,” she said.

Bergen went on to blast Trudeau for having worn blackface “on more times than he can remember” and demanding he apologize for smearing the “peace-loving, patriotic Canadians who are outside right now just asking to be heard.”

Fox News host Tucker Carlson slammed Trudeau as a “tyrant” who is afraid of the truckers.

“There’s no more fearful despot in the world than Justin Trudeau of Canada,” Carlson said on his show Monday evening.

A despot, however, he most certainly is.

“Canadians can no longer travel freely within their own country. They can no longer return to their own country at certain parts,” Carlson continued.

“Pastors have been imprisoned for holding church services,” he said. “The unvaccinated can be sent to jail for buying certain products in stores.”

Carlson then mocked Trudeau for fleeing as the truckers approached.

“Will he come back? Has he abdicated? Will Canada be ruled by a junta of truckers?” he asked condescendingly. “Well, not at this point.”

Canada would be all the better for it if he did.