Far-left Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (AOC) says she has been avoiding Twitter since she tested positive for COVID-19 days after being spotted partying maskless in Florida because it gives her “anxiety.”

One observer noticed her absence and asked when AOC would be back.

“That’s so funny that you bring that up,” she replied. “Yeah, when I got COVID I turned off all my devices, which means I wasn’t really on social media that much or anything like that.”

“I would go to open the (Twitter) app and I almost felt like, anxious,” AOC added. “People like, kind of fight and gossip, and all this other stuff so much.”

RELATED: AOC Tests Positive For COVID Days After Partying Maskless In Florida

AOC said that she had decided to take a break from Twitter following “negative comments” stemming from her battle with COVID-19 which gave her “anxiety.”

The same woman who accused Republicans daring to criticize her for cavorting maskless in Florida – on Twitter mind you – that they were just ‘sexually frustrated’ is super-upset about negativity on the platform, you guys.

AOC also posted to Twitter that her critics are people who “clearly need therapy, won’t do it, and use politics as their outlet instead.”

Perhaps the New York socialist could seek out her own therapy if Twitter gives her anxiety.

Oh wait, she’s already in therapy because she was almost murdered on January 6th – despite being in a nearby office building rather than the Capitol. Forgot about that.

RELATED: AOC Melts Down After Being Caught Maskless In Florida, Says Criticism Is From Sexually Frustrated Republicans That Want To Date Her

Christina Pushaw, the spokeswoman for Florida Governor Ron Desantis, suggested AOC could have avoided the backlash on Twitter if she wasn’t such a hypocrite.

“Perhaps she could have avoided much of that ‘Twitter negativity’ if she had refrained from making unprovoked, bad-faith attacks on Governor DeSantis,” she told the Daily Mail.

“By demanding our governor adopt the same failed pandemic restrictions as lockdown liberals like NY Gov. Hochul, while on vacation in Florida, the congresswoman unsurprisingly drew backlash and mockery,” added Pushaw.

DeSantis, shortly after it was revealed that AOC was caught escaping New York to party freely in Florida, also took a jab at the congresswoman.

“If I had a dollar for every lockdown politician who decided to escape to Florida over the last two years, I’d be a pretty doggone wealthy man, let me tell you,” he joked previously.

In late December, an image surfaced of Ocasio-Cortez and her boyfriend dining maskless in Miami as cases in her district were soaring, choosing to vacation in Florida rather than say, another blue state with strict COVID mandates.

A video also surfaced of her without a mask in a densely packed drag bar.

Days later, AOC announced on her official Twitter page that she had tested positive for COVID.

Her current hiatus from one social media platform is only temporary, she assured followers on Instagram, a different social media platform.

“There’s a lot of negative negativity on there,” AOC said of Twitter and its associated anxiety. “But I’ll be back. Don’t worry. Just a break.”