The Daily Mail has uncovered new smoking gun documents that tie Pelosi’s son to a fraud and bribery scheme in San Francisco and may indicate he gave a tried to give a bribe to get a city building permit despite violations that would normally have been denied.

Nancy Pelosi’s son listed himself as the owner of a flop house tied to a fraud and bribery scheme prosecuted by the FBI, in documents newly unearthed by DailyMail.com.

In the documents, Paul Pelosi Jr. signed statements that he was the property owner, ‘the party legally and financially responsible for this proposed construction activity’ and agreed to ‘abide by all applicable laws and requirements that govern Owner-Builders as well as employers.’

And they even show Pelosi Jr., 53, applying for one of the very same permits that building inspector Bernie Curran and ‘permits expeditor’ Rodrigo Santos have been indicted for.

The Department of Building Inspection (DBI) form, signed by Pelosi Jr. and dated December 7, 2017, is a ‘smoking gun’ that evidences the House Speaker’s son’s close links to the high-profile public corruption criminal case.

Curran and Santos are due in federal court in San Francisco this week.

Prosecutors claim Santos arranged for his clients to donate thousands of dollars to Curran’s favorite non-profit – a rugby club – in exchange for him turning a blind eye to violations and which would deny their buildings city permits. One such person, identified only as Client 9 in charging documents wrote a $1,500 check to the club to help remove violations from the squalid ‘residential hotel’ on Utah Street.

Last week DailyMail.com exclusively revealed that Pelosi Jr. was interviewed by feds in San Francisco over the hotel which was owned by his former girlfriend Karena Apple Feng.

There was already some suggestion that he could be the mysterious Client 9. The discovery of the new documents heighten that speculation.

Text messages obtained by the feds allegedly show Santos and Client 9 brazenly discussing a bribe to Curran’s favorite charity to help grease the permit process.

‘I will forward the address to Curran. He will abate it,’ Santos, 63, allegedly wrote to his client in September 2017.

‘Please drop off a check payable to Golden Gate Youth [Rugby] Association for $1k. Bernie’s nonprofit.’

‘With pleasure,’ Client 9 replied, and later sent Santos a picture of a $1,500 check with the message: ‘made the donation and it is being sent today.’

The check was never deposited by the club, and prosecutors have not accused it of any wrongdoing. It is unclear why Client 9 sent $1,500 rather than the suggested $1,000.

The charging documents describe Client 9 as ‘an individual working on behalf of the owners of the property located on the 1300 block of Utah Street’.