CHINA has revealed its aerospace plans for the next five years, intensifying its space race with the United States.

The Chinese State Council last week announced its space exploration ambitions in a new white paper.

The document detailed Beijing's plans over the next five years, including steps it would take to dominate the aerospace sector.

Two of China's biggest goals include launching its own space telescope and completing its own space station.

The space telescope, which is currently under development, is called Xuntian, or the Chinese Space Station Telescope (CSST).

The CSST is expected to possess a 2 meter (6.6 foot) diameter primary mirror, as well as a field of view 300 times larger than NASA's Hubble Space Telescope.

A field of view that wide would allow the telescope to observe up to 40 percent of the sky over ten years.

If all goes as planned, the telescope will co-orbit Earth along with the Chinese space station and will be able to periodically dock.

"The telescope will be set up in an optical module that can fly independently in orbit for a higher efficiency of space probe," Zhou Jianping, chief designer of China's human spaceflight program, told China Central Television in March of last year.

"Meanwhile, we will make it fly approximately in common orbit with the future space station. This will help us refuel the telescope and carry out in-orbit upgrade[s] for it, so as to always keep it on the level of an international frontier," Jianping added.

CSST is expected to launch sometime in 2024.

Other notable space missions outlined in the Chinese white paper include exploring Jupiter, building a research station on the Moon, and bringing back samples from Mars.

China's recently-announced plans highlight the country's very real efforts to overtake the United States as the world's leading aerospace superpower.

In other news, Apple has revealed a bunch of new emojis for the iPhone, including a pregnant man and two saucy symbols.

Experts have warned that future space launches could be jeopardized if "stupid" regimes like Russia don't stop blasting the skies creating debris.

And the most popular phone since the millennium has been unveiled, with many shocked to find out it's not an iPhone