Life chances and luck criss-cross your chart in ways that may seem surprising yet still feel so right.

So do say yes to sampling them. If you’re a love-seeker, the person in the seat next to you is ready to stick by your side for life.

For committed lovers, a true home is where both hearts want to be.

Opportunity reshapes your chart in two memorable ways. Jupiter honesty brings secrets out.

And Mars passion puts you first for now – however much partner or family pressure you may feel.

If you’re single, love heats up as the temperature rises where holidays are being discussed.

A powerful strand of transformation runs through your chart.

Your star skill is assembling all the parts of a situation into something special.

So even if no one else seems to spot great passion or job potential, trust your instincts.

Love may be changing, but you can change with it – and emerge stronger.

A golden Jupiter gleam can be the key to unlocking a fabulous learning opportunity.

This time, stick to what you know, but set your sights so much higher.

Passion is made for sharing, and partners find such unique ways to do this.

Single? Just one glance through a stained-glass window is all it takes.

Two new cash mindsets kick in.

First, switch emotions to mute and take a long, cool look at what is happening at work.

Second, plan out some practical saving or spending steps for a couple that can bring a shared dream closer.

Winning luck can have a strong link to seaside themes.

A moon and Mars collaboration can present you an emotional challenge, but one you are so able to deal with.

Trust in yourself and your ability to say and do just what’s needed.

Making a money choice based on the future not the past brings key names closer. A five-sided shape can be lucky.

Some disruption at work is a small price to pay for a set of creative opportunities, but do try to work this out as a team.

Your charismatic passion personality has accepted the largest share of love-work for too long – so yes, it’s time to level things up.

If you’re single, a Scorpio medic can set your pulse racing.

Shyness that may have held back words before can fade away when Pluto helps you see that you have what people really want.

Now you’re ready to deliver, your way.

Your creative zone sizzles and hot new ways to make love wilder seem so simple.

Get ready to celebrate love in all its forms – family, friendship and passion.

The thoughtful moon and positive sun make the co-operation and bonding parts of your personality stand out.

So if there’s anyone you want to draw back your way, now is the time.

Let you instincts lead you to a sequence of lucky numbers.

The understanding way Venus operates in your chart is rewarding on every level.

Best of all is how you use mistakes to move forward for the next few weeks, rather than letting them stop you.

A conversation about some special music can lead to a work proposal. This time, saying no at home may be right.

When a chance comes to share personal dreams, you should grab it because it’s what isn’t being said that holds lovers back right now.

And this may put a barrier between you and someone who could heal your heart.

In money terms, two very different views can come together into something spectacular. Try it.

Pluto brings deep inner strength to help you pull back passion plans that may have run away from you.

If you’re in love, any upheaval now can be rewarded with future stability.

If you’re single, a dream date shares your birth month, plus a passion for one particular place.