MILLIONS of us became pet parents in lockdown, but many people did not appreciate just how much it can cost.

Vets bills can blow a serious hole in your budget so here’s how to avoid some common mishaps and keep treatment costs down.

POISON PROBLEM: It pays to know what’s safe to feed your pets. Cooked bones are dangerous to dogs because they can break into sharp splinters. Don’t let them eat grapes, onions, leeks, garlic or chocolate either.

Most of these are also poisonous to cats. Lilies are toxic so avoid having them in the house or garden. If pets do eat something they shouldn’t, call the Animal Poison Line on 01202 50 9000 to find out if they need treatment. It’s open 24 hours a day and you’ll pay £35-£45 depending on when you call. The helpline says it saves seven out of ten callers a trip to the vet, where an appointment can cost £60.

SMART ADVICE: Vet apps mean you can get advice 24/7 and save money on in-person appointments if the problem can be dealt with remotely. The Joii app has a free symptom checker and you don’t have to pay for consultations with a nurse.

Vet appointments cost £24 but you can get your first one for free this month with the code FREECALLFEB. PocketVet offers pay as you go consultations for £19.99 each or subscribe to get unlimited consultations for multiple pets at £9.99 per month. Get your first appointment for half price with the code THESUN until April 29.

FREE HELP: Your pets might be eligible for free or low-cost treatment from PDSA, Blue Cross or RSPCA clinics if you receive certain benefits, such as the housing element of Universal Credit.

Find out if you qualify at these sites:

pdsa.org.uk/pet-help-and-advice/eligibility

bluecross.org.uk/veterinary# eligibility

rspca.org.uk/whatwedo/care/ financial
• All prices correct at time of going to press. Deals/offers subject to availability.

WHY wait for Shrove Tuesday for Iceland’s £5 pancake bundle? Worth around £8.75, it includes pan, pancake mix, cooking spray and lemon juice or maple-flavour syrup.

THERE are some good Clubcard deals this week at Tesco for Chinese New Year. Try crispy aromatic half duck for £5, down from £7.

STACK your bedtime reads on a Blue mango wood and rattan bedside table, for £245 from Oliver Bonas, or tidy clutter into the B&M Urban Paradise cabinet for £30.

SMALLS going grey? A twin pack of Vamoosh lingerie whitener is £5.99 at Lakeland, was £7.99.

ORAL-B 3D white luxe perfection toothpaste is down from £3.75 to £2.50 at Asda.

JOIN thousands of readers taking part in The Sun Raffle.

Every month we’re giving away £100 to 250 lucky readers - whether you’re saving up or just in need of some extra cash, The Sun could have you covered.

Every Sun Savers code entered equals one Raffle ticket. The more codes you enter, the more tickets you'll earn and the more chance you will have of winning!

To take part go to sunsavers.co.uk or open the Sun Savers app.

With Sun Savers, we give you the best hacks, deals and tips to save money every single day.

TO JOIN: Don’t worry, folks — joining takes just 30 seconds, in three steps.