THE Only Way Is Essex star Chloe Brockett broke down in tears while trying to find love on Celebs Go Dating.

The 21-year-old is one of the stars taking part in the current series and has found it tough, especially as she wants to find someone who's not caught up in her Towie persona.

Chloe popped into the dating agency's offices in London to talk about her most recent date with Craig, which she had walked out of with experts Paul Brunson and Anna Williamson.

The TV star got frustrated when her date kept referring to her as 'Brockett the Rocket' – her popular nickname on Towie.

"My last date wasn't amazing," Chloe started, before explaining she had hoped Craig would loosen up a bit on their date after choosing him at the mixer.

"But as soon as he walked in, he was like 'Brockett the Rocket', and that's something people used to say to me when I first joined Towie and immediately I got my back up. Just call me Chloe," she said getting upset.

"I'm just trying really hard, to just walk in with an preconception was not nice... I just felt like I've been so good and so honest.

"And it's something I have to deal with that people would have that people are going to have that preconception of me from Towie and I have to deal with that, but it's not ideal."

She'd also grown frustrated at the lack of success she'd had so far on Celebs Go Dating and asked the experts to give her a 'bit of a break'.

"I am a bit annoyed because we're halfway and I have not met one pers I haven't made a connection with."

But Paul warned Chloe that "in this industry" it will be hard to find people who haven't heard of her or be interested in her TV career.

"This is the one part we're going to really need to work on, because for the rest of your life and unfortunately in this industry it's usually going to be negative," he explained.

"And if you go around reacting to all these folks doing this it's going to destroy you."

Viewers watching at home had mixed reactions to Chloe's emotional moment, with some saying they hoped she'd find love, while others told her she should've expected attention for her Towie fame.

"Chloe doesn't like people having preconceptions of her? That was always going to happen when you signed up to Towie hun," commented one fan on Twitter.

Another added: "Bless her, she's kinda fragile, is, Chloe... She seems a decent/nice girl, though... She'll find someone suitable in the not too distant future..."

And a third wrote: "Exactly, Paul You can work on shrugging it off, Chloe You will."

Chloe recently revealed things did not work out for her on the series and that she'd "never been more single."

One fan asked the Towie star during an Instagram Q&A: "Are you seeing anyone at the moment?"

Responding by posting a photo of her with the Celebs Go Dating agents Paul and Anna, Chloe wrote: "No. I don't think I've ever been more single.

"And I'm happy being single. I like my own company and focusing on myself, I don't want a boyfriend at the moment."

Chloe added: "My time on @celebsgodating taught me more about myself and my values than I could imagine x."