HEALTH and wellness have been top of mind for the last two years, with some experts arguing that quality sleep is key to staying healthy.

One expert has revealed the best position to help reduce back pain so you can achieve a more restful night's sleep.

Narwan Amini from Eachnight.com insists there are health benefits to some sleeping positions.

For example, she says sleeping on your side is considered the best position for your health.

That's because of the alignment it provides your spine, while also helping to minimize acid reflux.

To receive the benefits of side sleeping, Amini encourages a medium to soft mattress.

This type of mattress will provide pressure relief as well as a cushion for hips and shoulders.

For better neurological health, Amini also recommends side sleeping.

This position helps your brain get rid of waste faster as compared to other positions, and can reduce the risk of developing neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's or Alzheimer's.

If you suffer from back pain, and especially lower back pain, it's best not to sleep on your back as it can lead to more stress and pressure on your lumbar spine and lower back muscles.

Instead, opt for the fetal position.

For pregnant women, sleeping on the left side specifically is best, especially for those who often experience discomfort at night.

The left side position can help prevent pressure against the liver.

The fetal position is also beneficial to pregnant women. However, all others are advised by Amini to sleep on the right side instead for the best health benefits.

Amini also advises that sleeping on your stomach is the worst position for your health.

Stomach sleeping can lead to a variety of issues, including strained muscles and joints, back and neck pain, and stiffness.

If you're transitioning to a new sleep position, like side sleeping, that could be more beneficial for your health, Amini recommends placing a pillow under your hips to prevent pain and help protect your back.