NO ONE can credibly pretend that one or two bad apples have dragged Cressida Dick’s Met Police into the gutter.

The multiple instances of violent misogyny, religious hatred, homophobia and racism by officers are too widespread.

Given the number of neanderthal bullies who somehow become Met police, its recruitment and vetting processes are shot too.

Wayne Couzens from murdering Sarah Everard shocked the nation. So did the sickening antics of officers jailed for photographing two murdered sisters.

At Charing Cross nick the thuggish bigotry flowed so freely that a cop told a female colleague he would “happily rape” her and drug her with chloroform.

Another bragged about beating his partner. They “joked” about killing black children, about the Holocaust, about rape at knifepoint.

They sound like throwbacks to dark decades past. But this is 2022. Society abhors prejudice. We teach kids about respect and sexual consent, highlighted by our own No Means No campaign.

It is bad enough that progress passed these men by, let alone that they were responsible for upholding the law and that nine somehow still are. Why has anyone found guilty by this probe survived?

Why are we hearing the Met apologise yet again? It’s all Dame Cressida and her team seem to do these days.

London’s force needs a total overhaul, starting at the top.

IT should terrify the Government that with bills soaring a third of us are already ­cutting back on gas and electricity.

Not luxuries, not meals out . . . household fuel, to keep us warm in winter and our homes lit.

And we are still two months away from the real crisis in April. That’s when the energy price cap will rocket, inflation with it and — for reasons lost on everyone outside Downing Street — our National Insurance tax too.

It should terrify the Tories. But does it?

It boggles the mind that a Government in as much trouble as this one sees hardship engulfing voters but chooses to worsen it.

CUTTING tax was meant to be a Brexit ­dividend. So much for that.

Slashing EU red tape to boost growth was supposedly another. Except now Lord Frost’s excellent idea — that we cut two EU rules for every new law we write — has ALSO been shelved.

Why? Because Remainer civil servants fear it could jeopardise Boris Johnson’s Net Zero mission.

That is madness, PM. Remember “taking back control” from Brussels?

Forget wine and cheese . . . let Brexit voters down and you really will be toast.