SADIQ Khan “could shut” London’s Tube network and a number of bridges for days on end as the black hole in TfL’s finances reaches £1.5billion.

Plans to introduce a road tax, raising council tax and extending the congestion charge zone will not be enough to balance the Transport for London’s (TfL) books, board papers have revealed.

Officials at the transport authority have also warned a programme to avoid road deaths will need to be put on hold.

TfL’s finances were dealt a severe blow by the drastic fall in revenue raised by fares during the pandemic.

Critics of the Mayor of London have also claimed that his pledge in 2016 not to raise fares have contributed to the situation in TfL’s finances.

Mr Khan, 51, who is also the chairman of TfL, had to rely on a number of bailouts from Westminster to prevent London Underground and the capital’s buses from grinding to a halt.

That money though came with a number of strings attached, such as a pledge to look at the introduction of driverless Tube trains.

After the Department for Transport snubbed requests for TfL to keep its share of vehicle excise duty, or “road tax,” Mr Khan proposed introducing a £2 “clear air charge” for drivers in the capital.

Also being considered is a so-called boundary charge of up to £5.50 a day levied on motorists entering Greater London.

Gareth Bacon, Conservative MP for Orpington, said: "The Government will cover the cost of coronavirus, but Sadiq Khan needs to come up with a plan to pay for London's public transport in the long term. Undoubtedly, his decision to freeze fares, which lost TfL at least £640m, has made this task far harder.

Mr Bacon added Mr Khan needed to also "get a grip" on the cost of TfL's gold-plated pension, staff perks and bonuses as well as finding ways to boost London's economy and "ridership".

Caroline Pidgeon, Liberal Democrat member of the Greater London Authority and transport committee chairman, said: “Bus services have already seen a decline in frequency and soon many other TfL transport services will be cut back as well, unless the Government starts to treat TfL on the same terms as the financial support it readily offers to the train operating companies.

Ms Pidgeon added the "playing of games" with London's transport services need to "come to and end".

The latest funding deal, which was announced in December, runs out on Friday.

Talks between Boris Johnson’s transport adviser Andrew Gilligan and Mr Khan, are said to be ongoing, The Telegraph reports.

In a TfL budget update, prepared for its board meeting on Wednesday, it sets out plans to put the London Underground into “managed decline,” according to the paper.

“A declining network with ageing assets that will fail more regularly,” officials warned. “The risk of major asset reliability issues on the Tube that could cause multi-day closures.”

In other moves, TfL has earmarked six roads that are facing “imminent closure” because there isn’t the funds to maintain them.

These include Vauxhall Bridge, with its steel structure said to be in “very poor” condition; the Rotherhithe Tunnel, which is due to have its fire and ventilation systems repaired; and the Brent Cross flyovers which are also said to be in “very poor” condition.

Board papers claim TfL’s finances have been hit to the tune of more than £250m due to the omicron variant, rising inflation and energy prices.

A spokesman for Mr Khan said: “This is a small window into the stark reality of the financial crisis facing TfL, just days away from the current government funding deal expiring.

“Without a new, sustainable long-term funding deal there is a real risk of major projects being paused, cuts to services, trains falling into disrepair and closures on major road networks – all of which would disrupt services for hundreds of thousands of people and stifle the economic recovery of London and the country.”