A FORMER cop who quit after bosses found out about her Only Fans page says ex-colleagues now want discounts for her racy pics.

Melissa Williams was forced to "retire" after an anonymous tip off about her sideline but says she's now being pestered for free pics by colleagues who gossiped about her.

The 46-year-old said she began posting her explicit content on OnlyFans in May 2020.

She said it was means of spicing up her sex life with her husband and unwind from her dangerous and challenging job with Arapahoe County Sheriff's Office in Colorado.

But in the days since Melissa, who goes by the alias Lexi Bella, went public with her story, her fan base has soared from 400 to 4,800 fans.

And many of those, she says, are dozens of police officers sliding into her DMs to ask for a "discount for law enforcement" and free photos.

“I’ve seen messages on my Instagram from former male colleagues saying things like ‘Oh I was your favourite, can you send me something for free?’," she said.

“Others have asked if I do a discount for law enforcement? The answer is just no.”

Melissa, was was a cop for 28 years, said “it’s interesting to me that I had just a handful of co-workers reach out in support during all of this”.

Ironically “now some of those who were gossiping about me and spreading rumours are the ones asking for free photos and subscriptions”.

“While I was out on a mental health leave, I received calls from colleagues alerting me that false rumours were being spread about me. I felt that my character and leadership was being shred."

Melissa discovered that several of her colleagues had signed up to her page to "investigate her conduct," and they shared her images around the entire local force and jail staff.

The situation affected Williams' mental health, and she eventually spent 12 weeks with a doctor who recommended that she not return to her old job.

During her time off, a severance package of $30,000 was put together by her lawyer and the local force.

But there have been some positive outcomes too, with hundreds of messages of support from other law enforcement officers.

“The support really has been overwhelming and it means so much,” she said.