BARNET have suspended captain Jamie Turley and threatened to axe more players after they went on strike over an alleged racist comment from their own coach, according to shock reports.

A Bees coach is reported to have called Stockport County star Ryan Johnson 'monkey' during Saturday's National League clash.

The Mirror claims Johnson told Barnet players of the alleged racial slur.

Turley is said to have demanded the coach in question be banned from attending training on Monday.

But after the member of the backroom staff turned up, Turley is claimed to have confronted him, calling his presence 'inappropriate'.

Barnet players went on strike and angrily threatened to sit out Tuesday night's game at Southend United.

But after allegedly being threatened with having their contracts terminated, Bees players eventually decided to go ahead with the match - a 2-1 loss in Essex.

Kleanthous told the Mirror: “I have not spoken with the team at all and am not aware of any direct 'termination' threat to the players.

“However, it is worth noting that the players are contracted under the standard FA playing contracts to participate in football matches.

"So I would assume that any threats not to play would be a breach of their contracts and would carry heavy sanctions from the National League.

“Jamie Turley has been suspended on full pay by HR at the Club following a separate internal complaint.

“This is standard staff disciplinary procedure and good practice to allow for the appropriate investigation to be carried out.

“To be clear, a suspension is not in and of itself a disciplinary action or a reflection of guilt, but rather allows the space for an investigation to be efficiently and thoroughly conducted without any third-party influence.”

Kleanthous went on to claim police say there is 'no substance' to the accusations of racism and the unnamed coach will not face action.

The club chairman continued: “An investigation was carried out in full on the day of the alleged incident.

“This was conducted by the Safety Officer, who has overarching authority over these matters on match days, and in consultation with the attending Police present at the game.

“Witnesses were interviewed with statements taken and the matter was reported to the London Matchday Silver Commander in a debrief to MO6 HQ Football Unit in line with MPS Policy.

"The senior police officer at the scene confirms there was no allegation or substance for a criminal investigation to take place.

“The Club is currently conducting further investigations to ensure a comprehensive review of the matter and to provide it’s observations to The FA.

“Finally, I hope it is understood that Barnet Football Club takes its social responsibilities very seriously and will always act with full integrity when investigating any matter.

"The Club will not tolerate racism or any other form of abuse and will act swiftly and robustly to deal with any such behaviour.”

It's claimed the players have demanded further talks with Kleanthous.

Manchester United legend Rio Ferdinand revealed his anger at the treatment of the players on Twitter.

The ex-England defender tweeted: "Can’t believe what I am reading…

"Club captain suspended for standing up against a racist incident involving his own staff member