PREGNANCY is beautiful and these celebrities know it.

From Kim Kardashian to Rihanna and Kylie Jenner, these stars exposed their BARE baby bumps while they were expecting instead of covering up.

In late January 2022, Rihanna, 33, revealed she had Love On The Brain and a bun in the oven by sharing glamorous photos of her bare baby bump.

The Barbados-born singer flaunted her pregnant belly during her New York City weekend outing with A$AP, also 33, in his hometown neighborhood of Harlem.

Riri wore a long $6.7K pink puffer despite the freezing weather, and ditched a top beneath the coat to instead rock a string of pearls and a jeweled cross necklace that shimmered down her nude tummy.

Fans speculated she was pregnant in November of last year after she reportedly asked staff not to smoke around her when she attended Barbados’ first-ever presidential inauguration.

Some also claimed they had seen a baby bump - but the ANTI singer proved she's not ANTI-publicity with her baby boldness.

"Congrats to Rihanna but ... it’s snowing baby pls put that belly away before u catch a womb cold" one Twitter user joked on Rihanna's photoshoot.

Kim, 41, filed for divorce from Kanye West in February 2021 after nearly seven years of marriage and four kids - North, eight, Saint, six, Chicago, four and Psalm, two.

During her second pregnancy with daughter Saint West in 2015, the reality star didn't SKIM by some major maternity moments on the red carpet.

🔵 Read our Rihanna pregnancy live blog for the latest updates

Kim stunned in a custom Givenchy sheer dress at the 2015 Lacma Art + Film gala.

Sheer lingerie-inspired lace covered Kim's bare baby belly that you could see right through.

Saint was born a month later, so Kim was well along at the time.

The megastar wasn't thrilled however with how she was portrayed back then: "I was not a good pregnant person, I was not a cute pregnant person. I did not like it, I hated it, I hated how I felt, I hated how I looked," Kardashian said on a podcast at the time.

On September 7 2021, Kim's sister Kylie, 24, announced her second pregnancy with Travis Scott on Instagram.

In an intimate video, she showed herself holding her positive pregnancy test and showing it to Travis, 30, as well as her mother, Kris Jenner.

"Are you pregnant?" Kris asks, as she begins to smile, and adds, "Stormi, we're gonna have a baby!"

Kylie kept posting her bare baby bump after that and didn't look back.

On January 6, 2022, she took to Instagram to post a pregnancy update with her belly popping out of unbuttoned jeans, writing: "I am woman."

Earlier in September, she flaunted her pregnant belly in another Instagram mirror selfie that saw her wearing a crop top and a trench over it - with her tummy exposed once more.

Kylie's and Travis share Stormi, 4, but there were no baby bump photos until after the fact the first time around, as they kept the pregnancy quiet the entire time via covert social media use.

She told Andy Cohen: Andy Cohen: "I shared so much of my life. I was also really young when I got pregnant, and it was just a lot for me personally."

Model Emily Ratajkowski, 30, gave birth to her son Sylvester Apollo Bear in March 2021 with husband Sebastian Bear-McClard.

Emily has kept her baby Bear largely out of the public light, but when she was expecting her strategy was anything but.

In February 2021, Emily shared a nude Instagram selfie that showed off her maternity body in its full beauty.

"Sometimes I feel like Winnie the Pooh in human form, other times like a fertility goddess with a juicy butt," she captioned the post.

"I took this on a day where I was feeling the latter. Either way I know I’m going to miss this bump and those kicks very soon."

Emily also quipped in April alongside an Instagram post of her nursing: "If it seems like I'm always breastfeeding it's because I am."

And as she told Vogue at the 2021 Met Gala, "Having my body bring life into the world and grow life totally changed my perspective on everything."

Sophie Turner and Joe Jonas had a baby girl in July 2020 - Willa.

Reports that Sophie is pregnant with her husband's baby began back in February 2020, but the pair never officially confirmed they were expecting their first child.

“The couple is keeping things very hush hush but their friends and family are super excited for them," sources told Just Jared earlier in the year, while another source told E!:

"They told their families recently and everyone is ecstatic and so happy for them."

Although Joe and Sophie kept their maternity mum - not announcing baby Willa formally until she was born - Sophie proudly showed off her baby bump in public in May 2020 and did share a bold baby bump photo to Instagram after the fact.

In September of that year she posted the below photo with an emoji caption.

Ciara, 36, and football star Russell Wilson share two children, Win, and a daughter, Sienna.

The singer is also mother to son Future Zahir Wilson, age six, from her previous relationship with rapper Future.

While she was expecting Win - born in 2020 - the 1, 2 Step singer made fans do a one-two take with her bare belly photos.

"The bump is bumpin," she captioned a 2020 Instagram post, baring all in a straw hat.

Ciara also showed off her baby bump in a music video for the song Rooted days before she was due.

"She's even more sexy being pregnant. This woman can do everything," one Youtuber wrote.