A YOUNG woman manhandled into a van in broad daylight by her controlling boyfriend for not doing as she’s told.

Another young woman posts footage of herself battered and bruised, along with a distressing audio recording in which, after tearfully saying she doesn’t want sex, she’s told: “I don’t give a f*** what you want . . . Push me again one more time and watch what happens to you.”

And yet another young woman, this time a mother of two, stabbed to death on a busy street by the ex-husband she was rightly terrified of and had reported several times to police.

Once again, there’s the rallying cry of: “How can we protect our daughters?” when, “How can we educate our sons?” would be more apt, as The Sun’s new #NoMeansNo campaign with Women’s Aid highlights.

But there’s a wider problem of institutional sexism here too; where the vital message of zero tolerance to violence against women is being watered down with inaction, excuses and cover-ups.

Random sex attacks by strangers venting their inadequacy on whichever unfortunate woman happens to cross their path are largely ­unavoidable.

But when Yasmin Wafah Chkaifi died following a brutal knife attack by ex-husband Leon McCaskie on a busy West London street last Monday morning, the tragic outcome might have been different had her repeated pleas to police been heeded.

Now one of her two teenage sons has accused officers of doing little to protect his mother who, he says, had contacted them numerous times about McCaskie’s sustained campaign of harassment.

It’s not the first time that the police’s attitude towards women’s concerns about the threatening behaviour of men has come across as, “Give us a call when he does something really serious.” If, of course, you’re still alive to make that call.

And what of the sentence handed out to 20-year-old Chay Bowskill after he bundled girlfriend Angel Lynn into a van against her will?

She fell out at high speed, sustained a catastrophic brain injury and now needs round-the-clock care from her distraught parents Paddy and Nikki.

Nikki, 47, says: “The judge himself recognised that the kidnap came after months of bullying, hitting and offensive messages. He even recognised that the fact Angel was in the van was the reason she ended up suffering such horrendous injuries.”

Yet Bowskill was sentenced to two years for kidnap, three years and three months for controlling behaviour and two years and three months for perverting the course of justice.

According to Nikki: “He’ll be out in less than three years.”

The judge said he had taken Bowskill’s youth and immaturity into account, but what the hell has that got to do with it?

It takes me back to the 1990s when, following my interview with Sheryl Gascoigne, who’d been physically attacked by her then husband Paul at Scotland’s Gleneagles Hotel, one of his friends sought to mitigate the star’s behaviour by claiming she’d taunted him about his upbringing.

“This doesn’t excuse what happened, but it might go some way to explaining it,” they said.

“Paul is a highly strung, sensitive individual and can be easily provoked. He is in many ways a hyperactive kid who flies off the handle.”

Ah yes, that explains the sustained bite marks, strangulation welts on Sheryl’s neck and her two dislocated fingers. It’s because he’s immature and she wound him up.

Two decades later and here we are again, with an adult man’s “immaturity” still being factored in as mitigation against domestic abuse.

Angel’s parents have asked for the “unduly lenient” sentence to be reviewed, and Women’s Aid says it shows that “we urgently need domestic abuse training for all judges.”

So that’s the police and the judicial system. While we’re at it, let’s add the Army to the list of institutions that need educating too.

At the weekend, a Sunday Times investigation headlined “The Army’s dirty secret” reported that soldiers guilty of violence against women are being allowed to continue their military careers, with some even gaining promotion.

The article was accompanied by the smiling faces of 52 women who, between 2009 and 2019, lost their lives at the hands of current or former members of the Armed Forces.

One, 24-year-old sales executive Alice Ruggles, was killed by ex-boyfriend Trimaan Dhillon, who broke into her flat and slit her throat after she broke up with him.

Her poor family later discovered that he’d previously been charged with assault against another ex and issued with a restraining order.

But he had been permitted to stay in the Army and there was no formal record of his criminal history on his files.

In another case, a woman went to the Royal Military Police to report years of abuse from her soldier partner, including having a gun and knives pulled on her and being kicked so hard in the stomach that she lost their unborn baby.

The response? She was told his superiors would “have a word” with him. It would be laughable if it wasn’t so dangerously tone deaf.

And don’t get me started on the football industry. To add insult to her injury all those years ago, Sheryl told me that officials from Gascoigne’s then club Rangers arrived to whisk him away from the hotel, leaving her to fend for herself.

Would the same happen now?

Hopefully not, but irrespective of how clubs are now handling serious allegations of rape and sexual assault against their players, there’s wider work to be done on the “protect the asset” climate that enables those who behave with reckless, and sometimes criminal, abandon in the way they treat young women on a night out.

The prison service needs a radical rethink too. A Call To Action report in 2020 showed that while there were at least 400,000 serious perpetrators in what campaigners describe as “an epidemic of male violence”, fewer than one per cent received specialist intervention to challenge and change their behaviour.

Right now, the attitude across the board is to be reactive rather than proactive.

This has to change or far too many women will continue to lose their lives at the hands of violent men.

WHEN it comes to exercise, there’s only one thing I loathe more than jogging and that’s immersing myself in any water that isn’t at least 35 degrees in temperature.

Such is my aversion to to the latter that, on the extremely rare occasion I have entered a swimming pool on holiday, it’s an event of such Halley’s-Comet-esque magnitude that my kids rush to take a photo.

So imagine my horror when, despite my admiration and envy of Davina McCall’s superfit physique knowing no bounds, she reveals it’s partly down to “deep-water running” which involves jogging in a pool too deep to stand in.

HOUSING Secretary Michael Gove says cladding and insulation manufacturers must pay to fix unsafe buildings or face being banned from trading in this country.

While he’s at it, he might wish to look again at the decision to loosen planning laws so developers can build flats on top of existing apartment blocks to help ease the housing crisis.

That’s all well and good if the developer is gold standard, but what about those who cut corners to maximise profits, do sub-standard work, then likely dissolve the company before the problems (roof leaks etc) start to emerge and the existing lease-holders are left paying the cost of fixing the shoddy workmanship?

SUPERMODEL Cara Delevingne has revealed that she buys children’s clothes. She adds that she purchases them “for my future child who doesn’t exist”.

Given her petite build, one might have suspected she was buying them for herself.