ACTOR Shia LaBeouf has been in an on and off relationship with Mia Goth since the two got married in 2016.

Goth was spotted with LaBeouf at Disneyland in California in June 2021.

News broke on February 1, 2022, when People reported that Mia was indeed pregnant.

The actress was spotted in Pasadena, California running errands and sporting her baby bump.

She wore black leggings and a white long sleeve top that exposed the bottom of her belly during the outing.

Goth also paired her look with sunglasses and a pair of Birkenstocks sandals with socks.

Goth and LaBeouf were married in 2016, but in 2018, a rep for the actor confirmed that the pair had decided to officially end their romantic relationship.

"Shia and Mia have filed for divorce. The separation is amicable and all details pertaining to the divorce proceedings will remain private," the rep said at the time.

The two first met in 2012 while filming Lars von Trier's NC-17 drama Nymphomaniac: Vol. II.

Goth later appeared in a music video LaBeouf directed in 2014.

The pair has since been spotted together following news of their divorce.

In April 2020 rumors began that the two had reconciled when LaBeouf was spotted wearing a wedding band.

Goth was seen wearing both a diamond ring and a wedding band at the time.

LaBeouf, 35, has dated other women in the limelight before meeting Goth.

The actor dated famous singer FKA Twigs, 34, for a total of nine months according to BBC.

The pair initially split citing conflicting work schedules, however, it was later revealed that their split was more tumultuous than that.

The Los Angeles Times reported that Twigs had filed a lawsuit against LaBeouf.

She has accused LaBeouf of "relentless abuse" as well as sexual battery, assault, and infliction of emotional distress.

LaBeouf denied "each and every allegation" brought against him by Twigs in a response to her pending suit.

The singer told Elle in an interview published on February 17, 2021, that "it's a miracle I came out alive."