THE Teacher fans took to Twitter to complain about a plot twist tonight as Sheridan Smith's lead character was placed on the sex offenders register.

The second episode of the four-part drama saw a distraught Jenna pleading guilty after she was accused of bedding one of her pupils, a young lad called Kyle.

Sheridan's disgraced teacher doesn't remember if she committed the crime because she was blind drunk when it supposedly took place.

Tonight, her solicitor informed her of a piece of incriminating evidence, saying explicit photos had been sent from her phone to Kyle via an app.

Wracked with guilt, Jenna pleaded guilty to avoid dragging Kyle and herself through a tough public trial.

But towards the end of the episode - after Jenna had suffered horrific abuse and her car vandalised with the word "paedo" - the sacked teacher discovered an alias was used to set up the social media account from which the photos were sent.

And they had been uploaded months before she had supposedly got entangled with Kyle.

The timeline made no sense to viewers, who hit out at the lazy plot hole and claimed it hadn't made sense for Jenna to plead guilty if she couldn't remember anything from the night she met Kyle in the club.

One fan moaned: "So why would your solicitor not tell you a social media account was set up as an alias, makes no sense"

Another scoffed: "Ffs so the social media account was registered quite a while ago? She happens to find out after pleading guilty! I'm finished"

And a third ranted: "Jenna preaching her bail conditions confronting Kyle & this is what I don’t like about this drama. It makes 0 sense & now she knows he lied after she pleaded guilty to it"

In the new Channel 5 drama The Teacher, Samuel Bottomley appears as teenager Kyle at the centre of the inappropriate encounter with his teacher.

The actor said it was a pleasure working alongside co-star Sheridan.

He said: “It’s the first time we’d worked together but as soon as I met her, she welcomed me into the cast with open arms.

“We sat down and talked about the characters and the scripts and she never let me feel too nervous.

"Everyone had a really good time filming the series and me and Sheridan were always laughing and joking.”