NASA shared an attention-grabbing image of a Mars rock that looks as if it is wearing a surprised face.

The US space agency took to Twitter to share a comical image of a rock on Mars' surface on Monday that had hundreds of users talking.

NASA officials shared three images on their Mars Perseverance Twitter account this week: Two of a rock's surface and one of Perseverance's wheel.

The rock, designated "Issole," appears to have two widened eyes and an open "O"-shaped mouth akin to a surprised look.

Issole wore a surprised face thanks to NASA's Perserverance land rover, which drilled holes into its surface to collect samples.

"This rock almost looked surprised that I was coming back," the Twitter post said.

"Thankfully, I was able to collect another sample here to replace the one I discarded earlier," the tweet continued.

NASA officials added that this sample may be one of the oldest that Perseverance has collected and may help us to better understand the history of Mars.

Issole is considered an ancient rock on Mars, and therefore of particular interest to NASA.

The agency has been hoping to gather adequate samples from Issole so they can study them on Earth in the future.

However, the Mars rover faced a bit of a problem in December when a pebble clogged its sample-collection system.

Thankfully, NASA was able to resolve the issue and the rover was able to collect fresh samples this week.

After NASA shared Perseverance's success on Twitter, dozens of users replied to the thread with their own rendering of the drill holes.

One user compared the image to Pokemon's beloved Pikachu.

Another user compared the drill markings to the face of a baby rhesus macaque.

In other news, Apple has revealed a bunch of new emojis for the iPhone, including a pregnant man and two saucy symbols.

Experts have warned that future space launches could be jeopardized if "stupid" regimes like Russia don't stop blasting the skies creating debris.

And the most popular phone since the millennium has been unveiled, with many shocked to find out it's not an iPhone