TEEN Mom Farrah Abraham's estranged mom, Debra Danielsen, looked fresh-faced and feathered in a throwback photo with her now ex-husband Michael.

The 64-year-old reality star was married to business leader/technology expert Michael for 24 years before divorcing in 2010.

In the snap posted on Reddit, her mom dons a spaghetti-strapped cami under an unbuttoned sweater and accessorizes with a thick gold chain, while Farrah's mustachioed dad sports a T-shirt and cradles the future MTV star, who wears a buttoned-up tank top.

"Farrah literally won the genetic lottery and she had to botch her face," one user posted, however, not all the comments were kind.

Like Farrah, Debra's look has morphed over the years.

According to In Touch Weekly, plastic surgeon Dr. Jason Diamond, who has not treated Debra, says it looks like she "has received lower blepharoplasty, or lower eyelid surgery, cheek augmentation, probably in the form of facial fat grafting and/or facial fillers, and a facelift."

Several rounds of plastic surgery led to the Farrah we see today.

TikTok famous plastic surgeon Dr. Anthony Youn told The Sun it looks like Farrah has had $133K in procedures.

Farrah has revealed she had a nose job ($12k), plenty of lip fillers ($1,200 each injection) and Botox ($750 per dose), veneers ($20K), cheek fillers ($5K), brow lift ($9K), fox eye surgery to open up her features ($7,500), and buccal fat removal ($5K).

🍼 Follow all our latest news & stories on Teen Mom.

Plus, Farrah recently revealed in her book Dream Twenties: Self-Guided Self Help Memoir that her 2012 chin implant left her “freaked out,” as she removed it just a year after the procedure.

The mother-daughter pair have been estranged since May 2021, as their family issues were a storyline on Teen Mom OG.

Debra recently gave an update on her relationship with her daughter on her YouTube channel.

During an interview with Farrah’s childhood friend Tyler Cooksey, she said: “Unfortunately as a mom… it was really hard for me to let go. Whenever you love people, you never want to let them go.

“Farrah grew up, she turned 30… You have to make a choice. I had to make a choice that I need to be treated with common courtesy and respect. And if that’s not happening that means I don't respect my own self. So I had to call a time out. I can’t put up with this.

“Right now I am not talking to Farrah because of an incident that occurred. I felt really hurt and disrespected. I am praying for resolution and I would love nothing more than to have restoration. But I have to be treated with kindness and respect.”

Farrah has confessed to "suicidal thoughts" and admitted she is "afraid to go out in public" after she was arrested for assault last month.

She was alleged to have slapped a security guard at Grandmaster Records in Hollywood before she counter-claimed she was "assaulted by club staff."

Farrah told TMZ she now has "no bodily function on her upper right side" and is undergoing physical therapy after images from the event saw her lying face-down on the floor.

The former reality star then said she hoped she would not need surgery for her injuries.

The fired Teen Mom OG alum has an upcoming court hearing for the battery arrest in May 2022.

Debra exclusively told The Sun: “I'm afraid for my Sophia and am always praying for a miracle.

“Bad behavior has consequences and you have to treat people with respect. People who don't have to get corrected.”

Deb ended by saying that her daughter believes she is “always the victim.”