ARSENAL outcast Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s move to Barcelona went through in the final MINUTE of the transfer window.

Barca president Joan Laporta revealed the Gabon striker’s departure from Arsenal was almost scuppered because the Gunners were late in giving the green light.

Arsenal finally gave the go ahead for Auba’s free transfer after negotiating a pay-off for the final 18 months of his £350,000-a-week Emirates contract.

But Laporta revealed the Prem club’s paperwork only arrived as the window was about to shut.

Auba, 32, was pictured signing his new Barcelona contract in Spain at midnight on Monday, but the LaLiga giants have yet to officially announce him - even though he trained with his new team-mates yesterday.

Laporta declared: “The documentation finally arrived when there was a minute left for the market to close.

“If everything goes well we will present Aubameyang at the end of the week.”

Aubameyang had been frozen out by Gunners boss Mikel Arteta since mid-December following a disciplinary breach.

The ex-Arsenal skipper will take a significant pay cut - to around £60,000 per week - for the first next six months although it is expected he will receive a significant uplift if he stays for the following season.

His father, also named Pierre and who lives on the outskirts of Barcelona, posted his “confirmation” message on social media.

In an emoji-strewn post in French and Spanish, he said: “I give thanks to Almighty God.

“How beautiful, my son. How can you not be proud?

“We will always go ahead, my son.”

Aubameyang had not played for Arsenal since December 6, missing the last ten games.

He was also omitted for Arsenal’s current winter training trip to Dubai.

However, Barca boss Xavi may be forced to dump Auba from his Europa League squad.

Aubameyang was one of four Barca January signings, but Uefa allow only a maximum of three new players to feature in European competitions.

As a result, Xavi will have to choose between Dani Alves, Ferran Torres, Adama Traore and Aubameyang.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals