A FORMER Miss USA shared a chilling Instagram photo that fans claim predicted her death before the pageant queen died by a reported suicide.

Cheslie Kryst, 30, was found dead on Sunday morning after falling from the 29th floor of the Orion building, a 60-story apartment block in New York City, at approximately 7.15am.

Cops believe that the former beauty queen, who lived on the ninth floor, jumped to her death.

Fans rushed to pay tribute to the lawyer and 2019 Miss USA winner on her social media pages.

One heartbreaking post Kryst shared in December 2019 stunned fans, however, with some commenting it was a "premonition."

The picture Kryst shared shows her lying on the ground after a workout in her home state of North Carolina.

"First workout back be like," she captioned the post.

"Mom said she was buying breakfast though, swipe for the glow-up."

Kryst tagged her mom April Simpkins, also a former pageant queen, in the Instagram post.

Simpkins spoke out about her daughter's tragic death for the first time on Tuesday in a conversation with Gayle King.

Read our Cheslie Kryst live blog for the very latest news and updates...

The CBS host, who was friendly with Kryst, revealed the mom's heartbreak in an essay for Oprah Daily.

“Cheslie wasn’t just my daughter; she was my best friend,” Simpkins reportedly said.

She has previously said that although she has six children, “Cheslie is probably the one who is most like me, where I am now in life.

“And we do spend a good bit of time together talking or sharing like interests, like working out or running our 5Ks, which is a ton of fun," she added.

“Months earlier, Cheslie had told me the exact same thing: Her mother was her best friend,” King wrote in Tuesday's heart-rending piece.

'REFUSED TO BELIEVE IT'

“Not only is her family shattered, but everybody who knew or worked with Cheslie is walking around in shock," King continued.

"How do you explain the unexplainable?”

“I simply refused to believe it. Perhaps she had been pushed? Maybe there was some other foul play? Now, of course, we know that is indeed what happened,” she added of the young woman's reported suicide.

“What was she thinking in those final moments? Did she plan it out? Did something so drastic and traumatic happen over the weekend that could have caused this?

“I cared a lot about this girl — and I thought I really knew her, so that’s what I’m struggling with,” King concluded.

The pair met in 2019 when Kryst appeared on CBS This Morning to talk about how, for the first time in history, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA, and Miss America were all black.

They stayed in touch as Kryst went on to become a correspondent for ExtraTV.

King described her as “so much more than a pretty girl with a microphone.”

Kryst had reportedly left everything to her mother in a note before her death.

She had said that her mom, who was crowned Mrs North Carolina in 2002, was her inspiration to start pageants as a teen.

“My mom was the second black Mrs. North Carolina, so I knew no matter what, I was going to compete,” said Kryst.

The NYPD is currently investigating the circumstances surrounding Kryst's death.

It's believed that she was alone when she jumped from a terrace on the 29th floor of the building.

Kryst is said to have written that she "wanted to leave everything behind" to her mother, though the note didn't reportedly include a motive for her actions.

Hours after Krysta's death, her family issued a gut-wrenching statement, which read: "In devastation and great sorrow, we share the passing of our beloved Cheslie.

“Her great light was one that inspired others around the world with her beauty and strength. She cared, she loved, she laughed and she shined.

“Cheslie embodied love and served others, whether through her work as an attorney fighting for social justice, as Miss USA and as a host on EXTRA,” her family continued.

“But most importantly as a daughter, sister, friend, mentor, and colleague — we know her impact will live on.”

Hours before her death, Kryst uploaded a chilling post on Instagram of herself captioned: “May this day bring you rest and peace.”

Dozens of tributes have poured in as news of her death emerged.

American actress and 2015’s Miss USA Olivia Jordan said: “Rest peacefully sister. The world will miss you and the light you shone so bright.”

ExtraTV also took to their Instagram account to share a tribute to the late correspondent.

The organization said: “Our hearts are broken. Cheslie was not just a vital part of our show, she was a beloved part of our ‘Extra’ family and touched the entire staff.”