GUS KENWORTHY has defended his choice to represent Team GB and not the USA — telling the internet trolls that he wants to honour his mum, Pip.

The 30-year-old was born in Chelmsford, Essex, but his family upped sticks to Colorado when he was just two.

As one of the world’s best freestyle skiers, he won an Olympic slopestyle silver medal eight years ago in Sochi as part of an American 1-2-3 finish.

Kenworthy also finished 12th at the 2018 Pyeongchang Games in South Korea under the Stars and Stripes banner.

Yet unlike in other sports, he has the ability to switch sides and will compete in GB colours this time in Beijing against younger rivals.

There have been some accusations that Kenworthy has taken the easier route and utilised the benefits of a second passport.

But he said: “I grew up in the US but I lived for the first couple of years of my life in the UK.

“My older brothers spent a lot more time there than I did. For my first Games, I felt I should compete for the US as I was living there at the time, I felt like an American.

JOIN SUN VEGAS: GET A FREE £10 BONUS WITH 100s OF GAMES TO PLAY AND NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED (Ts&Cs apply)

“There were a lot of different bumps along the road. Coming into these third Games, I realised that I wanted to go about it in a different way.

“I was very excited about the idea of being able to honour my mum and her heritage and doing it for GB.

“All the kids I am competing with are 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. I am 30. I want to go one last time and get to wave the Union Jack for my mum and make her really proud of me.

“The two biggest criticisms I get is that I’m only going for GB because I couldn’t make it for Team USA any more. I truly don’t believe that is true.

“I realise the USA team is insanely competitive. But I feel confident I could have made their team.

“The other criticism I get is I am taking a spot away from a British person who has been training for this.

“But that’s also not the case. You have to earn the spot. It is not as if someone else earned the spot for GB and then I am taking it.”

Kenworthy came out as gay in 2015 and says rivals have been supportive, even though for years he was depressed hiding his true self.

He said: “We were really thrust into the limelight and were the darlings of the Olympics.

“Three single guys. What is your favourite type of girl? Who is your celebrity crush? I was pretty gutted in my head the whole time. I am gay. I wasn’t out at the time.

“I hated myself the entire tour following the Olympics. Felt suicidal.

“I was lying on all these TV shows and in interviews. I hadn’t told my mum and friends I was gay.

“I wasn’t ready to come out. I just felt like such a fraud. So the following year, I decided I would come out.

“There were times during my life where I hated myself, I thought about killing myself, and I know that is the same for many LGBT people.

“It is important to speak up and be out, and be proud and visible. Because that representation matters and the visibility will change someone’s life.

“I feel sometimes people are like, ‘We get it, you are gay, you don’t have to keep talking about it’.

“But actually, if that is my legacy, I am pretty proud of that.”

THE Gerken Schofield sisters will maintain a united front when they compete against each other for Team GB in the women’s moguls.

Essex-born Leonie, 23, and Makayla, 22, take on timed runs over bumps in qualification tomorrow.

Leonie’s twin brother Tom is also a moguls skier but failed to qualify for the Games.

Asked how they went from Chelmsford to China, Makayla said “We used to go on family skiing holidays around France.

“Our mum and dad enjoyed it so much in Chatel that they decided to stay for the year.

“Then they thought, ‘The kids are happy, they are having absolute fun, learning another language’.

“And so we never moved back. I was six years old when we first went over there to live.”

The sisters’ success spurs each other on in their pursuit of glory.

Makayla said: “I’d say Leonie is much more competitive than me. I do remember when we were young and the first time I beat her, she was so mad.

“But as we have grown up we have become happier for each other.”

Leonie added: “When I see Makayla, my twin brother Tom do well, then I’m very happy.

“If Makayla wins a medal I’d be over the moon.”

SPEEDSTER Ellia Smeding funded the long road to China thanks to the sweet smell of coffee beans.

The 23-year-old will be Britain’s first female long-track speed skater at the Olympics for 42 years when she tackles the women’s 1,000 metres and 1500m disciplines.

Kim Ferran and Mandy Horsepool were the British representatives at the 1980 Lake Placid Games but across the four events they were tucked away at the back of the pack.

Smeding lives and competes in Heerenveen, Holland, with her boyfriend Cornelius Kersten, who himself ends a 30-year wait for a British man in the event.

To help fund their travel and training through the season, the ingenious pair set up a coffee business called Brew 22.

And Oxfordshire-born Smeding said: “Cornelius went to Japan for a World Cup and he found these single cup filters.

“I was really excited about it because we both really enjoy coffee.

“And in skating culture everybody really enjoys drinking coffee together in their free time.

“It had been a hassle bringing everything to World Cups so we found these filters and started working on this project.

“With family and friends we started bouncing ideas around, thinking maybe we could set up a web shop and use the money to support our skating and finance the Games in 2022. And it’s snowballed from there.

“We have help while we are away. My sister, family and friends will jump in and help out.

“Hopefully nothing will go wrong while we are away. It should all be fine.

“We are definitely going to bring a whole bunch of coffee filters with us.

“It depends how much weight we have left in our suitcases.

“We’ve already had requests for coffee from other skaters in the village.

“We will take as many as we can.”