KHLOE Kardashian looked completely unrecognizable in a new promo photo for her family’s upcoming Hulu reality show.

The 37-year-old appeared with long, blonde hair and in a pale pink dress that showed off her thin frame.

Khloe and the rest of the Kardashians have been filming lately for their brand new reality show, which is heading to Hulu soon.

Though a premiere date has not yet been announced, the show’s Instagram has been teasing its upcoming release with some new photos.

On Tuesday, solo shots of each of the Kardashian-Jenner women were shared to the account, with Khloe’s snap coming last.

Fans commented to say that clearly the account “saved the best for last.”

In the photo, Khloe looking totally unrecognizable as she sat in her chair, getting her hair and make-up done.

The pic showed the reality star from the side, giving fans a look at her slim figure as she wore a tight, strapless pink ensemble.

She pursed her lips as the make-up artist put the final touches on her face.

The hairstylist helped keep her long, blonde hair out of the way, pulling the straight strands away from her face.

One fan commented: “We will love to see Khloes glow up in the show.”

Khloe's new look is just the latest one of the reality star's physical changes.

Fans have been slamming her for months for always having a 

"new face."

They recently begged her to stop with the “lip injections and plastic surgery” after she looked unrecognizable in a new ad.

In a new commercial for a migraine treatment, Khloe appeared wearing a black, long-sleeved top, with her brown hair coming down in front in soft waves.

Fans tweeted that they couldn’t pay attention to anything in the video except her physical appearance – and, more specifically, her face.

The Keeping Up With the Kardashians alum wore neutral-toned make-up, but she looked unrecognizable with eyelash extensions, thickened eyebrows, prominent cheekbones, plump lips, and a thinner nose than in the past.

One fan joked after seeing Khloe in the ad: “I’ve heard Botox helps with migraines …… oh, wait.”

Another wondered, “What the hell happened to her lips,” to which a different user replied, “Lots and lots of filler.”

“I can’t get past that top lip, it’s so distracting,” one user pointed out specifically about what was capturing their attention in the commercial.

The new shot of Khloe's thinner frame comes as she's been showing off how hard she's been working in the gym.

The 37-year-old posted a before-and-after look at her toned back muscles on Tuesday.

The reality star showed proof of her amazing transformation over just a three-month period after she isolated her back muscles and built up her strength.

In the first photo, the TV personality wore a green strappy sports bra and matching leggings.

Her blonde hair was pulled into a bun as she flexed her back muscles, showing little to no definition.

Then, Khloe shared a follow-up photo of her current back, while wearing a black sports bra and matching leggings.

The new image showed a great deal of progress as the mother of one flexed her well-defined muscles for the camera.

The E! star captioned her post: "About 3 months apart. let’s go @coachjoe.paris we are sculpting my back and arms."

Despite Khloe's enthusiasm regarding her exercise routine, some fans have shown concern about her diet regimen, claiming she's become "too thin."

Last week, the Good American founder's followers shared their worry after her ribs were visible while she worked out at the gym.

Many believe the drastic weight loss came as a result of her "devastation" by the Tristan Thompson love child scandal.