A MASSIVE snowstorm has 85million Americans under a winter weather warning on Tuesday with up to 14 inches of snow and freezing temperatures forecast across 19 states.

Winter Storm Landon will stretch over 2,000 miles from New Mexico, across the Midwest, and up to Vermont in the Northeast.

The biggest impact is expected in the South where a crippling ice storm could see icy roads and power outages as temperatures plunge.

The Midwest could also experience potentially the biggest snowfall in a century.

Michigan, including the Detroit area, is bracing itself one of the biggest snowstorms on record.

The National Weather Service (NWS) predicts that between eight and 14 inches of snow could fall in the region.

A snow emergency has been declared for cities in the Detroit metro area as schools are closed.

By Thursday morning, between six and 12 inches of snow are also expected in parts of the Rockies and Midwest, the National Weather Service said.

The Midwest will in fact be hit with two bursts of winter weather in the next few days.

"Round 1 will arrive tonight and last through much of Wednesday," said the NWS office in Chicago.

"Widespread snow totals of eight to 12 inches will make travel difficult if not dangerous."

The snowfall rates could reach up to an inch per hour at times, it added, reducing visibility.

And that's before the second round of snow brings a predicted extra six inches to the region.

Denver and Dallas are expected to be among the hardest-hit cities with heavy ice likely in Texas as the storm pushes east and south.

"A corridor of heavy ice accumulation (exceeding a quarter of an inch) is likely from Texas through the Ohio Valley," the NWS added.

Rain is expected to begin in Dallas and Memphis from Wednesday evening before changing into a wintry mix on Thursday.

"The primary impact would be ice accumulation that may lead to very dangerous travel Thursday and Friday particularly on high-rise overpasses," the NWS said.

"A quarter-inch or more of ice accumulation on utility lines and trees with winds gusting to 30 mph would likely lead to power outages and tree damage."

By Thursday, the wintry mix will change to snow for the whole area as freezing temperatures hit.

Dallas and the surrounding area could see up to three inches of snowfall on Thursday.

"Dangerous wind chills as low as 5 below zero are forecast Thursday and Friday mornings," continued the NWS.

"Those that see significant ice accumulation would likely not rise above freezing until Sunday."

The storm could create a dangerous situation for anyone who loses power.

It comes only a year after Texas suffered a devastating winter storm that shut down the state's power grid and caused more than 100 deaths.

Indiana is also predicted to see up to 18 inches of snow, making travel "very difficult to impossible."

If the forecast measures as tracked, it would tie the all-time snowfall record from 1900, CNN reports.

The storm will then track toward the Northeast and New England.

It comes only days after a vicious Nor'easter brought blizzard conditions across.

Winter storm Landon is not expected to reach the magnitude of Kenan last week, however.

Yet it is forecast to lead to a messy winter day with shots of cold air keeping the snow on the ground for even longer.

Motorists are warned that if they must travel, to ensure they fill up their gas tanks.

They are also advised to ensure they pack a winter preparedness kit, equipped with blankets, jumper cables, phone chargers, flashlights, food, and water.