CELEBS Go Dating's Chloe Brockett looked almost unrecognisable in a make-up free photo.

The reality TV star reveals her natural beauty in the snap shared on Instagram and looked completely different.

Chloe wrote to fans alongside her picture: "A rare fully natural picture of me, what do you guys think with or without lashes ? 👶🏻"

One person replied: "Chloe you are so naturally beautiful ❤️ I get we all use makeup, lashes, hair, nails, etc to make us feel prettier but you really don't need it. A more natural lash and look suits you so much ❤️🔥"

Another raved: "Much prettier without make up and lashes !"

The 21-year-old is one of the stars taking part in the current series but, during an Instagram Q&A, Chloe confessed it didn't work out for her.

One fan asked the Towie star: "Are you seeing anyone at the moment?"

Responding by posting a photo of her with the Celebs Go Dating agents Paul Brunson and Anna Williamson, Chloe wrote: "No. I don't think I've ever been more single.

"And I'm happy being single. I like my own company and focusing on myself, I don't want a boyfriend at the moment."

Chloe added: "My time on @celebsgodating taught me more about myself and my values than I could imagine x."

She may not have had any luck on her dates for the E4 show, but Chloe did spark something up with Made in Chelsea's Miles Nazaire who also took part in the series.

Despite Chloe revealing to Nikita Jasmine that they had in fact been messaging, Miles defended himself.

He said: "I think naturally I'm a flirty guy. Sometimes I don't even register that I'm being flirty. In my head I'm just being kind, being nice and having a cheeky laugh.

"I think she sees something more.

"When we first met she was like 'what's your type?' And I said 'petite brunette'. She said 'well, that's me then'. Then obviously I played with that, kind of flirty.

"I feel like maybe I haven't really said 'Chloe, you and I can't really happen'. It's never got to a stage where it's felt like I needed to say it."

In November The Sun revealed that Chloe had been left hurt after Miles cooled things off between them.

A source said: "Miles has cooled things off with Chloe. It didn't have a chance to become anything serious so he didn't think it was a big deal.

"But Chloe is absolutely raging. As well as having feelings for Miles, she thought their romance could've been a great storyline - for either of their shows."