THE creator of a consulting website took to the page for feedback about a bizarre story when an employee was hired after an interview – but someone else showed up for work.

In a recent post on Ask A Manager, Alison Green revealed the puzzling story her husband endured at work.

Green revealed her husband was part of the leadership team at an IT company and was part of a panel that interviewed several candidates for an open position on his team.

"They had a few candidates for a first and second round, and had one make it to a third final round before an offer. 'John' accepted the offer and started last week.

"Except … it’s not the John my husband remembers. My husband was confused and said the following things were odd: John has different hair and now wears glasses.

"John is talking extensively about working in a garage because his three children and wife are home. In the interview, he made references to being single and was visibly in an indoor desk area."

Green continued: "John can’t answer a number of questions that they previously discussed in the interview, things pretty pivotal to the position.

"Husband describes John as being aloof and pretty timid whereas John was confident and articulate when they interviewed him. He is convinced this is not the person they hired."

Green goes on to explain to her husband that the hiring committee or human resources may have mixed up the candidate, and the wrong John was offered the position and accepted.

However, her husband quickly shut down that approach, saying it's highly unlikely because "only one candidate made it to the third round." Adding that the other applicants were already eliminated.

"He’s confident they couldn’t have been mixed up," Green wrote.

Green said her husband received a text from his boss "Holly," who also believes "John is acting a lot different than the John they hired."

She explains that her husband's boss also thinks it’s unlikely the candidates were mixed up.

The IT company's legal team approved HR's request to talk with John regarding the confusion.

However, the story surrounding John's true identity ends mysteriously after HR got on a call with him.

"As soon as HR got on the call with him, before they could get through their first question, John said the words 'I quit' and hung up the calls. He has since been unreachable!!" Green wrote.

The story quickly gained traction on social media, with many people revealing similar situations happening to them.

One person said she received a job offer over the phone, but the company emailed the paperwork to another individual with the same name who accepted the position.

"Once I received a job offer over the phone. When I didn’t get the promised paperwork via email, I called back—turns out they’d emailed it to ANOTHER Courtney Holmes, and she had accepted and filled out all the paperwork, assuming she’d gotten a job she hadn’t even applied for," the person tweeted.

Another shared: "This happened to me, I interviewed a gentleman virtually, and he was brilliant. Knew every answer to every question was personable; it was a slam dunk. When whoever showed up, it was not who I interviewed, no skills, super aloof really quiet."

A third person said: "I sat in on a zoom interview once where [SIC] one of my colleagues recognized the voice on the zoom as belonging to a friend, but the friend wasn’t interviewing. Turned out the friend was on a speaker phone answering all our questions for the candidate."