WHILE you might be more concerned about vacuuming up every dust bunny underneath the bed, there's likely a spot in the bedroom that hasn't even crossed your mind.

A woman revealed the one spot in the bedroom most people pay little attention to when cleaning – and once you see how dusty it is, you'll never neglect it again.

Cleaning specialist Chantel Mila shared a video on social media displaying how she went about reducing dust in her bedroom.

While making sure her bedsheets were off, she carried her high-powered vacuum as a backpack and used the hose to carefully vacuum up and down her entire mattress.

She then moved on to a spot where a large amount of dust had accumulated: her headboard.

She used the hose on her vacuum to go back and forth, collecting every bit of dust.

While cleaning the headboard was key, she also shared how to make your own dusting spray to tackle any dirt left behind.

The dusting spray consisted of mixing 1 cup of water, 1/4 cup of white vinegar, 2 teaspoons of fractionated coconut oil, and lemon essential oil.

She demonstrated using the dusting spray directly on her white nightstand and gently wiping any dust down with a microfiber cloth.

"The coconut oil coats your furniture with a thin layer to prevent dust from settling in longer," Chantel explained.

And for her final trick, she used a lint roller on her lampshade to pick off any pesky dust particles sticking to it.

A great deal of people couldn't wait to try out Chantel's hacks for themselves.

One person wrote: "I'm so glad I came across you on Instagram. Your hacks are great."

"I'm going to try the dusting spray.

"Where do you buy the coconut oil?"

Others were interested in what type of vacuum she was using.

"I have never seen one like that before. Wow! Thank you for sharing," one viewer noted.

And while vacuums are meant to clean rooms, did you know it's important to also clean your vacuum?

An expert previously broke down her Dyson cordless vacuum and showed exactly how to deep clean it and then put it back together again.