WAYNE ROONEY has challenged Luke Plange to help Derby County avoid the PLUNGE - before he heads off to Crystal Palace at the end of the season.

The 19-year-old former Arsenal Academy kid was only promoted by Rooney in December after the England legend spotted his talent in the Rams reserves.

Since then the striker has repaid his gaffer's faith with three goals in eight appearances.

And on Sunday it was Plange's second-half goal which sparked Derby's dramatic comeback as the Rams rallied from 2-0 down to snatch a stunning stoppage time draw with Birmingham City.

The dust had barely settled on that match when Patrick Vieira swooped to sign the teenager for Crystal Palace for £1million plus add-ons - and immediately loaned him back to Derby.

Now Rooney wants Palace's bargain boomerang signing to celebrate his move to the Prem - by keeping Derby in the Championship as they prepare to face Huddersfield Town on Wednesday night.

"Ideally we would like to have kept him and worked with him again next season and see him develop," said Rooney, who has only suffered one defeat in Derby's last seven Championship games.

"I think for the club as a whole it would have been better financially if that was the case.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

"I feel he could have come on a lot more under me and with this club, but on the other hand do the club need that money and we still have the player.

"That's the position, unfortunately, we are in at this minute.

"I was under the impression we were OK but obviously that wasn't the case and the administrators felt they had to sell Luke Plange.

"The good thing is we have got him back until the end of the season."

Despite an exhausting 24 hours following his whirlwind deadline day move, Plange will lead the Rams attack against the Terriers.

The youngster told Palace TV after agreeing a three-year deal: "Palace are a big club, a big Premier League club. I knew that it was a very good chance for me to take and to progress in my career.

"Obviously I’ll be with Derby fighting for them in the Championship. But I will be ready to go back to Crystal Palace in the summer.

"Wayne Rooney was a world class striker for many years – for decades.

"I’m taking tips and he’s helping me grow as a striker, and all the things he’s telling me I’m just trying to implement into my game."

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals