THE BRIT awards will be airing on February 8, 2022 on ITV in the UK and via YouTube internationally.

Adele's last performance at The Brit Awards was six years ago during the 2016 award show.

Is Adele performing at the BRIT awards?

The Easy On Me singer made the big announcement regarding her return to The Brit Awards just one week before the show.

"Hiya, so I’m really happy to say that I am performing at the Brits next week!!

"Anddddd I’ll also be popping in to see Graham for a chat on the couch while I’m in town too! I’m looking forward to it! Oh, and Rich sends his love," Adele wrote on her social media pages.

Most recently Adele had to postpone her Las Vegas residency at Caesars Palace due to her team coming down with Covid.

Her last performance at The Brit Awards in 2016 was to the song When We Were Young, she also took home four awards.

How can I watch the BRIT awards?

According to the award show's Twitter, the show will air on ITV - a TV network based in the United Kingdom.

For those not watching from the UK, YouTube will be streaming the show on February 8.

Following Adele's announcement on returning to the show's stage, fans also tweeted their joy of the news.

"CONFIRMED: @Adele is returning to the BRITs stage!! don't miss it on Tuesday 8 Feb on @ITV (UK) and http://YouTube.com/BRITs (International)."

How can I vote in the BRIT awards?

Fans can be part of the voting process for the award show by voting via TikTok.

On January 20, 2022, the award show tweeted how fans can cast their vote:

"voting for The BRITs 2022 genre awards is now OPEN on @tiktok_uk! you can cast your votes in the following categories: Dance Act Hip Hop/Grime/Rap Act Pop/R&B Act Rock/Alternative Act head to TikTok now to have your say: https://brits.lnk.to/TikTokVoting"

According to The Brit Awards, users on TikTok will be able to get 10 votes per category, per day.

Their vote allocation will reset every day at midnight GMT.

The voting period will close on Thursday February 3 at 6pm GMT.