LUCKY Pete. Kim Kardashian just released her new Valentine's SKIMS collection.

And the business mogul is seductively showing off the goods.

In a pair of Instagram posts, Kim models two of the new outfits.

One pic finds Kim sucking on her finger, while wearing a tight pink crop top and high cut bikini panties.

The other a more conservative "Woven Shine" raspberry crop top and shorts perfect for use as pjs.

Her caption promotes: "Just Dropped: The SKIMS Valentine’s Shop.

"New styles, new colors, new ways to go all in on the sexiest day of the year.

"Limited edition sexy sets and luxe little things to fall in love with, designed for all of your after-hours plans."

Kim's Valentine plans will most likely include new boyfriend Pete Davidson.

The Saturday Night Live funnyman and reality superstar have been hot and heavy since first hooking up last year.

And while the Staten Island native, 28, has been spending more time on the west coast with his new girlfriend, sources say he's considering making his stays permanent.

“Pete’s been spending more time in L.A. to be close to Kim, and he’s looking to find a place there,” an insider exclusively told US Weekly. “They’ve definitely gotten serious.”

Kim, 41, might also have dropped a huge hint she’s ready to marry at her friend Paris Hilton’s lavish wedding.

On the season finale of Peacock’s Paris In Love, the longtime pals got together for a sweet moment during the heiress’ 11-11 nuptials at her grandfather’s $62M estate, Brooklawn, in Bel-Air.

Following the extravagant ceremony Kim, 41, walked into the room where Paris, 40, was taking pictures with her new husband, Carter Reum.

Immediately, a smiling Kim begged of her childhood friend: “I need a favor… are you going to throw me your bouquet? Just look at me.”

The blushing new bride, who was holding a bundle of white roses, agreed, and the SKIMS founder went on to compliment Paris’ custom Oscar de la Renta gown as “stunning."

In weddings, it has long been the tradition that whoever catches the bouquet at the reception will be the next one to tie-the-knot.

Kim has been married three times before - to her first husband, Damon Thomas, whom she wed when she was just 19 from 2000-2004.

She was also hitched to Kris Humphries for a famous 72 days in 2011 and said "I Do" to Kanye West in 2014 but filed for divorce in early 2021.

As Paris' nuptials took place on November 11, 2021, the event was weeks after Kim began dating her new boyfriend.