When it comes to deep cleaning our homes, the kitchen is one of the places that collects the most dirt and grime.

It’s important to give the refrigerator and freezer a solid scrub every so often to keep these areas polished and fresh.

One woman, a cleaning expert who goes by @mama_mila on TikTok, said she knows a way to ensure that your fridge is not only spotless, but also smells nice—and you likely have all of the cleaning supplies at home.

First, she said to empty out the food from inside.

Then, mix one cup of water with half a cup of white vinegar into a spray bottle.

Her secret ingredient, however, is one that will leave your fridge with a spectacular aroma: two teaspoons of vanilla extract.

She then sprayed the shelves and scrubbed every corner with a cleaning brush.

“This mix is powerful at cutting through spills and stuck-on messes,” she explained.

When one commenter asked what the vanilla extract was for, the cleaning expert replied: “Vanilla extract is definitely for the small, but it also contains a small amount of alcohol which helps keep the fridge fresh.”

Besides cleaning the inside of your fridge, another TikTok cleaning guru said it’s important to look after the areas behind your appliances too.

In his video, @Timbosliceoflife12 said that although people often neglect these hidden spots, dust and food crumbs collect quickly here.

“This could then lead to mold starting to grow as the area is very moist," he explained.

“This can then lead to bad allergies - not only this but it can lead to pests that you don’t want in your home.”

However, the TikToker claimed these were not even the worst things that could happen if you don’t clean behind your fridge.

“You see, over time more and more dust will build up behind your refrigerator and if it covers the vents that are on the refrigerator that expels its air, it could potentially lead to a really bad house fire.

“To prevent this though, experts believe that you only need to clean behind your refrigerator once every three months."