MOLLY-MAE Hague has given fans a peek at her abs and slender waist after stepping out in a teeny top and £1,650 trousers.

The Love Island star, 22, was snapped in the doorway of a plush hotel in Manchester and looked smouldering as she posed in her expensive outfit.

Molly had teamed her white cropped top with a pair of Tom Ford 'logo waistband straight trousers'.

The black trousers have an elasticated waist for "comfort" - and an eye-watering price tag of £1,650.

Molly's hair was pinned half up and half down with a loose wave and she was clutching a £6,000 quilted Chanel shoulder bag.

The reality star, who is now the Creative Director of Pretty Little Thing, posted the snap on Instagram, along with a rear shot.

She told her 6.2million followers: "Nothing ruins your Friday like it being Tuesday."

Fans have been quick to comment on the photo, with one replying to Molly: "Wow wow wow!! Molly you are stunning!!!"

Another commented: "You look amazing as always!!"

Remarking on her trousers, a third simply wrote: "#tomford $."

A fourth poked fun out of Molly's caption after she recently said: "We all have the same 24 hours in the day."

The star was forced to apologise for the "tone deaf" remark, which was made as she talked about her success on The Diary Of A CEO podcast, hosted by Steven Bartlett.

Posting a 'crying with laughter' emoji, the fan wrote: "All the same 24 hours girl doesn’t matter the day🤣."

Meanwhile, Molly's new picture comes after she received a parking ticket for leaving her £32,000 Range Rover parked illegally in Manchester city centre.

She also shocked passers-by as she left £2,300 worth of luxury goods on show at the time in the front seat.

Molly's £1,600 Louis Vuitton gym bag was wide open, and her £800 Apple laptop could also been seen shoved on the seat.

Fortunately her goods remained there as she headed to a three-hour meeting and her only unwelcome surprise when she returned was her £60 fine.

It's the multi-millionaire's second ticket in just two weeks.