RIHANNA fans were left upset after the star broke her silence on social media and ignored her own pregnancy announcement.

The Love On The Brain singer revealed that she is expecting her first child with boyfriend A$AP Rocky in a series of stunning baby bump pictures yesterday.

Rihanna, 33, kept silent on social media following the announcement on Monday afternoon - leaving fans eager for her to discuss the baby news on Instagram.

However, when breaking her silence on social media on Tuesday, the singer opted to ignore her pregnancy and advertise a new lipstick from her make-up range.

Rihanna shared a video of herself showing off the various new Fenty Beauty shades - but fans were left unimpressed.

"I mean, miss ma’am…… this ain’t what we wanna see right now from you," one kicked off the debate, as dozens more chimed in to agree.

"No way did you just announce your pregnancy and instead of posting it posted a new lipstick," a second said, as a third added: "Post your pregnancy pics."

"Hot, but we want the pregnancy shoot," a third said, as a fourth bluntly chimed in: "Nice lipstick, now where is the baby bump?"

A fifth concluded: "Now for the love of god say something about the pregnancy."

However, others stepped in to defend the expectant mother, praising her for continuing with "her work" during her pregnancy.

"She's letting you all know Motherhood doesn’t define her & business keeps going," someone said, as a second agreed: "Artist, activist, boss, creator, MOM, what can’t you do?"

Earlier today, we exclusively revealed how Rihanna is 'set to raise her baby between Barbados and the US, so her child has the same culture and upbringing as her.’

A source told The Sun: "Rihanna would love to raise the baby partly in Barbados as she wants child to have the same culture and upbringing as her.

"She's an island girl at heart - she loves her heritage, and is so proud to represent Barbados.

"She wants her baby to experience the warmth of the people and the beautiful surroundings too. She has lots of family there too. That is so important to her, and to A$AP too."

The Stay singer sparked pregnancy rumours when she appeared to have a "baby bump" while in Barbados last November.

She jetted to Barbados to be named a national hero of her home country.