SHIA LeBeouf will now be a father as he and Mia Goth are expecting their first child together.

The actress, 28, was recently spotted showing off her baby bump while running errands out in Pasadena, California.

Mia was seen sporting a pair of black leggings and a white long sleeve shirt that put the bottom of her belly on display.

She also rocked black sunglasses and a pair of Birkenstocks.

The couple first tied the knot in 2016, but parted ways in 2018 as a rep for the Even Stevens alum confirmed the news at the time.

They said: "Shia and Mia have filed for divorce. The separation is amicable and all details pertaining to the divorce proceedings will remain private."

The two first met in 2012 while filming Nymphomaniac: Vol. II. and would get married four years later.

Although, Clark County officials said at the time that the duo was not legally married.

Officials tweeted: "Our records show no marriage license for Shia LaBeouf & Mia Goth. A commitment ceremony was performed #Vegas."

While they have been on and off, they were spotted holding hands in Los Angeles during the coronavirus pandemic, according to the outlet.

Despite the split that was not the end for the pair as the Honey Boy star was then spotted wearing a wedding band in April 2020, while Mia had on both a diamond ring and wedding band, sparking speculation that they were giving things another shot.

Rumors of Mia possibly being pregnant has swirled for months as back in November they were noticed at Chuck E. Cheese, where TMZ reported Mia's "baby bump" was apparent and that she seemed to be "about four to five months along."

Fans also speculated the A Cure For Wellness star was expecting after her bump seemed to be noticeable as she said farewell to Shia before he headed to the airport... dressed as a monk.

Shia's previous relationship to Twigs - real name Tahliah Debrett Barnett - was put on the forefront late last year when the singer accused the star of "verbal and sexual abuse."

Twigs, 34, accused Shia in a lawsuit of choking her, giving her an STD, and inflicting emotional abuse on her.

In response to the claims Shia said in a statement: “I have a history of hurting the people closest to me. I’m ashamed of that history and am sorry to those I hurt. There is nothing else I can really say…”

Shia’s attorney Shawn Holley also told Variety that "Shia needs help and he knows that."

The troubled star has also been arrested several times in the past on charges that range from assault to disorderly conduct.