USING the same password for multiple accounts is dangerous and can leave you more susceptible to hackers.

However, as we increasingly get more accounts and more reasons to be online, coming up with different passwords can be a problem.

This is why password manager apps are so useful and could save you time as well as keep you safe.

A password manager is like an encrypted vault that remembers all your passwords for you.

You just need to set it up on your device of choice and let passwords automatically fill themselves in.

Some of the best password managers have password generators built in that can pick a safe password for you.

If you use an iPhone you should make the most of iCloud Keychain, which is Apple's own password manager.

Alternatively, you can try one of the popular password manager apps.

These apps should be downloaded from the official Google Play Store or Apple App Store.

Always check the reviews and do your own research before you download an app.

Popular names include Bitwarden: Best free password manager, which offers free and paid options.

There's also 1Password: Best paid password manager for multiple platforms.

It offers a free trial but then charges a base price of $35.88 per year.

Apple users may want to refrain for paying out for an expensive password manager at the moment.

Rumours suggest the upcoming iOS 15.4 will make iCloud Keychain an even better free option.

How to set up iCloud Keychain

First, you'll need to make sure you're using an Apple device running iOS 7.0.3 or later.

On your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, follow these steps:
• Tap Settings > [your name] > iCloud (on iOS 10.2 or earlier, it's just Settings > iCloud)
• Tap the slider to turn on iCloud Keychain

In other news, WhatsApp has revealed plans to introduce the app on new devices.

Nasa has upgraded its asteroid hazard software with some key changes that should help it better detect potentially dangerous space rocks.

And, we looked into the weird world of ‘puffer jacket porn’ accounts.