TV mogul Simon Cowell was rushed to hospital following another terrifying e-bike smash, The Sun can reveal.

Sources said the 62-year-old is lucky to be alive after he was propelled over the handlebars and onto the road at 20mph — while not wearing a helmet.

Passers-by dashed to help the blood-soaked Britain’s Got Talent star before paramedics arrived.

The dad of one was rushed to hospital with suspected concussion and a broken arm.

Cowell’s latest crash — near his home in West London — comes 18 months after he broke his back on an e-bike in Los Angeles.

Last night a source said: “Simon is lucky to be alive.

“He was pedalling along, with his electric motor on, when the wheels suddenly went from under him after hitting a wet patch.

"He slipped and went flying over the handlebars into the middle of the road.

“Stupidly, Simon wasn’t wearing a helmet, and blood was pouring from his face — he looked like something from Phantom of the Opera.

“Three kindly passers-by jumped into action, and stopped the traffic so he wouldn’t be run over.

“After being ambulanced to hospital and given an X-ray, Simon was eventually released that evening — his arm in a yellow cast all the way up to the shoulder — and told to rest.

“Despite this being his second great escape, Simon insists he’s not ditching the bike — but he will start wearing a helmet.”

Cowell’s crash came last Thursday, a day after he completed filming on the new series of Britain’s Got Talent, which starts in April.

He will now have to film promos with his arm in the plaster from Chelsea and Westminster Hospital.

And it has already been decorated by Eric, his seven-year-old son with fiancée Lauren Silverman, 44.

A source added: “Eric chose the yellow, and has already signed it and drawn their two dogs, Squiddly and Diddly.”

In August 2020, Cowell was trying out a new £10,000 e-bike in his LA back garden when it reared out of control and threw him off.

A metal rod was inserted in his back during six hours of surgery.

Speaking afterwards he said: “Sometimes we get a reminder that we’re not invincible and this was certainly mine. It was a huge shock.”