I THOUGHT lunatic asylums had gone for good. That was until I read the new Highway Code.

The latest modifications to the nation’s traditional road user safety manual — which came in last weekend — must have been authored by an asylum inmate.

Already these new rules have put cyclists and drivers on a collision course, with reports of bike riders deliberately holding up traffic for up to eight miles.

The changes are not only dangerous but counterproductive. Mark my words, they will unquestionably risk more lives too.

The amendments put in place — for and by cyclists — assume that every driver is a homicidal maniac.

The only winners will be lawyers, insurance companies and under-takers. Driver prosecution adverts will become a common ­feature across all the media.

The latest Highway Code is a cyclists’ charter to ride any way they wish, no matter how dangerous, without fear of any prosecution.

They have been given what appears to be the legal right to pass ALL the blame in any traffic ­incident on to other road users — namely motorbikers, cars, vans, taxis, buses, coaches and trucks.

That is why representatives from the Alliance of British Drivers, the Motorcycle Action Group, campaign group Car 26 and FairFuelUK met yesterday to try to scrap the ill-thought-out rules forced on 37million road users by well-paid Whitehall decision-makers — the same “experts” who also gave us treacherous Smart Motorways and the consultation-free 2030 ban on the sale of fossil-fuelled new vehicles.

These poorly communicated changes to the Highway Code by an increasingly out of touch, anti-driver Government seem to be deliberately fuelling division even further between cyclists and motorists.

I’m extremely uncomfortable and very worried, along with the thousands of drivers who have contacted me through the FairFuelUK ­campaign, how these new laws and recommendations will be interpreted.

And here’s the thing — there was no need for any change to the ­previous Highway Code.

Dangerous use of the road should be punished hard, no matter what the mode of transport. That was already enshrined in statute.

When unsafe driving or riding occurs involving whatever the vehicle under our control, including a human-powered bicycle, the user of the vehicle must be penalised to the full extent of the law.

Out of 21,000 consultation responses delivered to the Department for Transport when this folly of all follies was created, 16,500 came from the cycling lobby.

And, incredibly, it is claimed they boasted about successfully loading the consultation in their favour.

Have you ever known a more biased state-controlled consultation process?

What person with sound mind who rides a bicycle would want to cycle straight on at a junction on the inside of a 40-ton articulated truck that is signalling in front to turn left?

Well, guess what — one of the Highway Code changes covers exactly that.

This rule gives a right of way to any cyclist passing on the inside of a left-turning vehicle or overtaking a right-turning vehicle on the outside.

Ninety-nine per cent of sensible cyclists know this to be a highly dangerous manoeuvre.

But a small minority of sanctimonious Lycra-clad riders will risk their lives to prove their pathological hatred for the motor car.

The Road Haulage Association believes the introduction of this new rule is not only treacherous but will most certainly put cyclists’ lives in genuine peril.

So what is the motivation of the Government to give cyclists a superpower belief they are bulletproof in any manoeuvre with other road users who are further down the newly declared ladder of blame?

Instead of making all road users liable for their actions or blunders, this new “hierarchy of responsibility” is based on the size or weight of a vehicle and signifies “presumed liability” by the back door.

Along with offering carte blanche to ignore cycle lanes and ride on main roads instead, our “out in the fresh air heroes” can now also ride side by side in the middle of the highway, blocking traffic, causing more frustration and severe congestion that paradoxically will give rise to increased vehicle emissions.

You couldn’t make this up.

In 2003 the Alliance Of British Drivers quite rightly suggested that a copy of the revised Highway Code should be sent to every household, paid for with ads and sponsorship.

As a bare minimum, they said a leaflet explaining the changes needed to be distributed urgently.

So why didn’t the Government action this laudable suggestion this time around?

Astonishingly, a recent AA survey suggested that only one third of drivers knew that major changes to the Highway Code were coming into force last Saturday. It’s manifestly clear that this Government — a Conservative administration too — is out of touch with motorised road users.

Behind an ill-informed green agenda and a love for their highly paid cycling tzars, they do seem hell-bent on removing cars from the roads completely.

A basis for a conspiracy theory maybe — yet these changes to the Highway Code have the foul stench of being a small part of the ­Government’s Net Zero aspirations.

FairFuelUK, with the Alliance of British Drivers and the Motorcycle Action Group, has already written a letter to Transport Secretary Grant Shapps, demanding these arcane new rules be scrapped, with a return to the roads being shared responsibly, through shared respect for safety by all road users.

Oh, I nearly forgot, we have a shedload of paid regional cycling commissioners, too.

So why don’t we have at least one representing the UK’s 37million ­drivers’ interests too?