It's a question few have dared to ask. Why would you want Zinedine Zidane when you've got Tim Sherwood?

Yep, in a list of ten jaw-dropping transfers that did NOT quite happen, that genuine quandary overshadows Maradona NOT joining Sheffield United and Ipswich NOT signing Paul Gascoigne.

The late Blackburn owner Jack Walker famously funded their transformation to 1995 top-flight winners.

But it was also Walker who posed the query that ended Rovers chief Kenny Dalglish's interest in then-Bordeaux starlet Zidane.

Here's our guide to some major moves that never quite went through - with the reasons for the near misses sometimes as incredible as the names.

Rovers boss Kenny Dalglish wanted the French superstar to join the Lancashire side.

However, owner Jack Walker decided to talk him out of it, saying: “Why do you want to sign Zidane when we have Tim Sherwood?”

Well, ZZ was a World Cup and Ballon d’Or winner just three years later at the age of 26.

A year before, the-then 30-year-old Sherwood won the first first of his three England caps.

We never got to see the great Brazilian in Europe — but we came so close.

Pele reveals the three giants from Spain, England and Italy did come calling, but he didn’t want to leave his boyhood club.

He said: “Real Madrid wanted me, along with Manchester United and Juventus.

“I thought about coming to Europe a lot, but I preferred to stay with the team in my heart, Santos.”

Blades boss Harry Haslam witnessed an impressive 17-year-old while on a scouting trip in Argentina.

And put everything in place for a £200,000 deal.

However, the board refused to stump up the cash and bought Alex Sabella for £160,000 instead.

Sheffield United were relegated the following season.

Maradona, well, we don’t think he had too many regrets.

Two of the most gifted players of their generation could have been playing together at Portman Road.

However, some poor judgement from the great Sir Bobby Robson stopped either move from being completed.

The former England boss was allegedly concerned with Gullit’s discipline, while he thought Gascoigne was too fat.

Sir Bobby and Gazza, though, would go onto create one of the most memorable relationships in English football history.

The England legend left Newcastle and had offers from both Tottenham and Manchester United.

Gascoigne promised Sir Alex Ferguson he would be moving to Old Trafford, as the Scot embarked on a holiday to Malta.

However, while on the Mediterranean island, Fergie received the news that Gazza had moved to White Hart Lane instead.

Who knows how different Gascoigne’s career could have turned out with United?!

The Frenchman had just ‘retired’ following a ban for throwing the ball at a referee whilst playing at Nimes.

However, Michel Platini urged him to give football another try and persuaded Owls boss Trevor Francis to give Cantona a trial.

Poor weather conditions meant Francis couldn’t make up his mind and wanted to see more.

Insulted, Cantona refused and signed for Leeds instead.

The three-time Ballon d’Or winner admits he “fell in love” with the Gunners when he visited the club.

But, Arsene Wenger failed to come to an agreement with Sporting Lisbon.

Liverpool also made bid of £5.7million, and Ronaldo was keen.

Speaking at the time, he said: “Liverpool are one of the best clubs in England and it would be a dream for any player to represent a club of such traditions.

“I will have to hope they make an offer that is good for both Sporting and myself.

But nothing was agreed and he moved to Old Trafford £12.5m.

The Brazilian nearly joined the likes of Youri Djorkaeff, Hierro and Jay Jay Okocha at the Reebok.

Rivaldo needed some time to think about it, but made his demands clear: ”There is a chance, as long as the club offer more money and match what I’m asking.

“The club is good, the stadium is very nice and my challenge would be to take the club into Europe.

“If I reach an agreement with Bolton, I will live in Manchester.”

Sam Allardyce refused to meet his demands and Rivaldo moved to Qatar.

Without him, Bolton finished just two points off qualifying for the Champions League.

Palermo's Cavani and River Plate’s Falcao were allegedly both desperate to move to the Premier League — and issued ‘come and get me’ pleas to Aston Villa.

Cavani was valued at £12.8m, but the Italian side were reportedly ready to accept far less.

Falcao would have cost around £5m, but boss Martin O’Neill wanted a player who knew the Prem.

So, he opted for Wigan’s Emile Heskey instead.

Another miss by Blackburn, another miss for Big Sam.

But this time, it was truly the fault of Mother Nature.

Rovers had a £4.2m bid for Lewandowski accepted by Lech Poznan, and the Pole was due to fly out and visit Ewood Park.

However, the ash cloud caused by the eruption of Icelandic volcano Eyjafjallajokull stopped any deal.

Does this ever haunt Allardyce?

Speaking in 2013, he said: “I think about it every time I see him play.”