TRAVIS Barker's daughter Alabama looked unrecognizable with no make-up after social media trolls bashed her mature style.

The 16-year-old recently said she was "over everybody" after critics scrutinized her makeup and outfit choices

Alabama showed off a different side of her donning a fresh-faced look in a new TikTok video.

The teenager posted a clip of her dancing in front of the camera while sporting a loosely fitted black t-shirt and seemingly no bottoms.

Travis' youngest child appeared to be in her bedroom as she moved her body to the Cupid remix by 2 Rare.

She forgoed her usual heavy makeup and went bare faced for the video, tying the front strands of her blond locks back in braids.

Fans loved the silly side to the high school student, commending her for letting loose in the comments.

One person wrote: "She’s so precious it hurts"

While a second person adored her natural appearance writing: "Can I just say you look absolutely stunning without any makeup onnnnnn! 😳🥰"

A third person agreed replying: "She’s naturally beautiful! U don’t need no makeup babe"

The post was a big contrast from Alabama's recent videos where she typically wore a full-face of makeup and her hair done up for the camera.

The teen regularly shares risqué, glammed up photos online, garnering backlash from critics not fond of her "mature" style.

She ignored the haters last week by sharing a TikTok of her dancing sensually while wearing black leather pants, a black string bra, and a short, puffy coat.

Her friend also appeared in the video, as well as her older brother Landon, 18, who performed his own solo routine off to the side.

Days prior, Alabama clapped back at social media trolls on her Instagram Stories.

She shared four selfies spliced together debuting a new cropped haircut that was curled in her signature platinum blond color.

She flashed the middle finger in one photo, all of which also saw her wearing a rocker tee with a skull - the same she wore in her latest vid.

Alabama centered the caption: "So over everybody," seemingly silencing the harsh scrutiny she's been receiving from internet trolls.

Critics have questioned the teen's suggestive posts as some have commented things like: "And she is how old????"

While others have said: "Hun you are a minor, you can't sexualize yourself like this" and "You are 16!!!! Where the hell are your parents??"

Alabama was asked by a fan: "how do you deal with the negativity im struggling with all the people in my hometown."

She responded: "There's so many different ways people cope with negativity, i personally just try and distance myself and just focus on myself, never let people get power over your energy."

Travis shares Alabama and Landon with his ex Shanna Moakler.

The drummer is currently engaged to Kourtney Kardashian as the two are preparing for their upcoming nuptials, which their children will be a large part of.