DANCING On Ice star Rachel Stevens' ex Jeremy Edwards has backed her to win the skating competition as he gushed she is "very talented".

The former Hollyoaks star started dating the S Club 7 singer in 2000 - and the couple were due to be married two years later after he popped the question.

Rachel, 43, has had to postpone her debut on the ITV skating show alongside professional partner Brendyn Hatfield after sustaining an injury.

She took to the ice for the first time over the weekend, and was saved from being sent home by the judges after a skate-off against Ria Hebden.

Now, the star has been pipped to win by her ex Jeremy, 50, who insisted they have remained "great friends" since their split in 2004.

He told New! magazine: "I want Rachel to win because she isn’t a trained dancer."

“She was never into skating, not as far as I know," the actor went on. "She was, and is, a very talented girl, and she looks great."

Rachel and skating star Brendyn performed their highly-anticipated first routine on Saturday night to Moulin Rouge hit Lady Marmalade.

Last week, the mother-of-two said she was keen to don some skimpy outfits for her upcoming routines to show off her physique, which is more toned than ever.

Rachel said: “I really know my body now. I know what suits me and what doesn’t. That really helps going into something like this — and the creative team are so open.

“Now I definitely feel more toned. Getting in my costume for the first time I was like, ‘This is so much fun!’ But you’ve also got to feel confident.”

Born and raised in North London, Rachel began her career in 1993 as a model and in 1998 joined S Club 7.

The group — Bradley McIntosh, Hannah Spearritt, Jo O’Meara, Jon Lee, Paul Cattermole, Tina Barrett and Rachel — scored a string of hits, including Reach For The Stars, Don’t Stop Moving and Say Goodbye.

The group came to an end in 2003 — and this month Rachel’s bandmate Tina revealed a reunion is unlikely to happen because Jo, Jon and Paul are not keen.

The same year that S Club split, Rachel became the band’s breakout star by releasing hit single Sweet Dreams My LA Ex. Although her solo pop career only lasted a few years, her status as a pin-up endured.

In 2009 she won the Rear Of The Year award — and in 2014 FHM crowned her Sexiest Woman Of All Time.