CRUSTY Uefa chiefs have done a chew-turn after taking legal action against a small restaurant selling 'Champignons League' pizzas.

Europe's football chiefs admitted being 'overzealous' and will now let the German pizzeria keep selling the football-themed meals.

'Champignons League' means 'Mushroom League' in German - but Uefa initially translated it as trouble for their image.

They claimed the pizza, which is topped with mozzarella and mushrooms, infringed their 'Champions League' trademark.

That was a real artichoker for Pizza Wolke, the eaterie 'in the town of Giessen, near Frankfurt, who have been selling them.

Uefa feared allowing Wolke to use a name so similar to Europe's top domestic football competition could be the thin edge of the pizza wedge.

But after being panned for their hard line, Uefa decided there were bigger dishes to fry and ditched the half-baked proceedings.

The governing body blamed their original tough stance on a local employee following guidelines too strictly.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

And topping off their about-turn in good spirits Uefa's media team wrote to tell the restaurant: "Clearly some people are making a meal of this story.

"Uefa obviously takes the protection of its intellectual property seriously but this instance seems to be a case of an over-zealous local trademark agent acting too hastily.

"The UEFA Champions League can happily live alongside this delicious-sounding pizza."

Pizza Wolke kept fans up to date with their epic clash on Instagram.

They posted: "Pizza Wolke Vs. UEFA€ Long live the pizza CHAMPI(G)NONS LEAGUE! I feel honoured ! As a kid of soccer! An advertisement by UEFA? Seriously?

"1) just shows me and my gang we definitely on the right track! My gang & I have hit a path and we won't stop until we're in every stomach and baked in every oven at some point! A man! A pizza! Let's see how far UEFA goes! BUY THE WORLD'S HOTTEST MUSHROOM PIZZA, everyone!"

As ex-England manager Graham Taylor would surely have said: "Dough I not like that!"

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals