MASON Greenwood will spend his third night in jail as cops quiz him on new offences - as Man Utd release a statement blasting "violence of any kind".

The striker, 20, has already spent two nights locked up after cops swooped over the rape and GBH claims on Sunday morning.

And now, police have been granted further time to speak to Greenwood after his two additional arrests on suspicion of sexual assault and threats to kill.

Greater Manchester Police confirmed they now have until tomorrow to quiz the player.

Greenwood was suspended indefinitely from Utd following his arrest on Sunday.

And in a statement tonight, the club said: "Manchester United reiterates its strong condemnation of violence of any kind.

"As previously communicated, Mason Greenwood will not train with, or play for, the club until further notice."

A statement from the force read: "Detectives have been granted further additional time to speak to a man in his 20s who was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault of a woman.

"The suspect was detained in custody on Sunday afternoon after we became aware of online social media images and videos posted by a woman reporting incidents of physical violence.

"Following enquiries so far, he has since been further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and threats to kill.

"Enquiries are ongoing and the victim continues to be offered specialist support.

"We remind people to avoid any commentary or sharing of images that could compromise the victim's right to lifelong anonymity, or risk prejudicing a live investigation with active proceedings."

Security staff - thought to have been provided by his club - were present at a second home he owns nearby and they confirmed his parents were inside.

Earlier today, Greenwood was removed from Manchester United’s squad on FIFA 22 after his arrest.

Greenwood has also been removed from the Manchester United squad list on the game, after the club removed any merchandise with his name on from their website.

The club’s official partner Cadbury said Greenwood won't appear on any of their marketing products.

Sponsor TeamViewer also announced that they are "closely monitoring developments".

Sportswear giant Nike, which provides the striker's boots, have suspended their sponsorship with the star.

The brand said in a statement: "We have suspended our relationship with Mason Greenwood.

"We are deeply concerned by the disturbing allegations and will continue to closely monitor the situation."

Greenwood has worn Nike boots since breaking into United’s first team in 2019.

He has been suspended indefinitely by his club after being arrested.

Several of his teammates have also unfollowed the star on social media after the images came to light.

The Premier League club initially said it did “not condone violence of any kind" and later suspended the £75,000-a-week star as a police probe was launched.

A spokesman for the club said: “Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice.”

The images and allegations were reportedly visible on the woman's Instagram on Sunday morning, but have since been deleted.