KIM Kardashian's latest fashion accessory has fans riled. And now the internet gloves are off.

It seems the reality star has had a fascination with gloves lately, most recently wearing them in an Instagram story promoting her new KKW Fragrance Valentines Day scents.

But many fans think her new look stinks, and are expressing their displeasure on Reddit.

One person commented: She's done a whole story on her fav perfumes for Vday, but then you have this ill fitting ski glove in your face.

Another wondered how long this phase would last: "I mean, did the gloves ever leave? I feel like she sleeps with them at this point. She’s going to have a Skims pajama-gloves line out soon, I swear it."

Still, others found the gloves comical.

As one fan noted: "Looks like the creepy old villain in a Bond movie longfully looking at an ancient artifact after they’ve stolen it."

And one person simply concluded: "All I think about is that she’s ready to rob a bank and doesn’t wanna leave any prints behind."

The 41-year-old has been hooked on gloves for months now, wearing them everywhere from the Met Gala, to her guest hosting stint on SNL, and even to the beach.

Some fans now have a theory that the model may be covering up due to a psoriasis "flare up."

A Reddit user posted their thoughts on her wardrobe on the platform relating it to the skin disease and her recent split from ex-husband Kanye West.

"Maybe someone has already said it, but I'm wondering if her psoriasis has been really flaring up this year due to stress- like the divorce. Which would make PERFECT SENSE as to why she's only been wearing body suits for the past few months.

The user added: "I know she has great resources around her to fix it, but I've heard that big flare ups can be super tough to manage and even cause scarring. What do y'all think?"

The 41-year-old first started donning the bodysuits a few months back, as she made her Saturday Night Live hosting debut wearing a gorgeous pink outfit for her opening monologue and another pink gown for the Powerball sketch.

Since, she has been seen sporting mainly body-hugging suits covering her from her toes to her fingertips.

Kim has been honest and upfront about suffering from psoriasis, a condition in which skin cells "build up and form scales and itchy, dry patches."

The businesswoman also recently became the new face of Spanish fashion brand Balenciaga.

The brand is known for its full body suits, and Kim has been stepping out in many notable creations in recent months.