SUPERMODEL Gisele Bündchen has been with Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady for 16 years, but she's had an extensive dating history prior to that.

Tom Brady retired from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers after 22 seasons with the team.

Gisele dated businessman João Paulo Diniz, who is 17 years her senior, for a few months in 1999.

At that time, Gisele was a rising star in the modeling world and had won the VH1 Vogue Model of the Year award.

The same year she dated and broke up with João Paulo, she then dated fellow model Scott Barnhill.

Shortly after they split, Scott told E! News: "We just recently split up, but you know, life goes on. I'm definitely working through it, I'm moving on."

In 2002, Gisele dated Brazilian polo player Rico Mansur for six months.

At the time they met, Rico was engaged to model Isabella Fiorentino, but he ended their relationship after meeting Gisele.

Gisele Bündchen and Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio were together from 1999 to 2005.

She said she was struggling with anxiety at the time.

“I didn’t feel like I could share my panic attacks with anyone," she said, according to a 2019 Vogue article.

"So I’d suppress it, and the more I suppressed it, the bigger it became.”

She also wrote about their relationship in her book Lessons: My Path to a Meaningful Life, saying she needed to rid herself of unhealthy habits.

“No longer numbing myself with smoking, drinking and too much work, I was becoming more and more aware of things that I’d chosen not to look at,” her book reads.

“Was I alone in wanting to do some serious soul-searching while he stayed the same?

In the end, unfortunately, the answer was yes.”

In 2005, Gisele began dating professional surfer Kelly Slater after her split from Leonardo.

The two were together for a brief stint until early 2006, but the relationship didn't last.

In 2006 she dated actor Josh Hartnett, although the fling was short-lived.

The two were reportedly caught kissing outside of a restaurant in New York City a week after Josh split with ex-girlfriend Scarlett Johansson.

Gisele, who is 41, denies ever dating Chris Evans.

"If everything that's written about me was true, I'd have about 10 kids and I'd be married five times, one of them with some actor named Chris Evans, whose name I heard for the first time two hours ago," she would tell Arena magazine.

Gisele found love with Tom in 2006, and the two got married in 2009.

Tom and Gisele share three children together, although his eldest son, Jack, was born in 2007 to Brady's ex-girlfriend Bridget Moynahan.

Both Tom and Gisele's relationships overlapped at the time that they met, but Gisele told Vanity Fair, "I knew right away — the first time I saw him" that he would be the one.

However, 16 years on, football player Tom revealed that he has to work at their marriage every day after Gisele told him several years ago that she wasn't "satisfied."

In an interview with Howard Stern on the Stern Show, he revealed that Gisele was unhappy with him "a few years ago."

The 44-year-old quarterback said, "There was a couple years ago, she didn’t feel I was doing my part for the family.

"She felt like I would play football all season and she would take care of the house, and then all of a sudden when the season would end, that I’d be like, 'Great, let me get into all my other business activities. Let me get into my football training.'

"And she’s sitting there going, 'Well, when are you going to do things for the house? When are you going to take the kids to school and do that?'"

The California native said that rather than fighting about it, he had to "check himself" and made a "big transition" two years ago to get things back on track.

He skipped organized team activity practices with the Patriots during the latter parts of the offseason.

He continued to explain, "She wasn’t satisfied with our marriage, so I needed to make a change in that."

What did Tom Brady say about Gisele when he announced his retirement?

NFL quarterback Tom Brady announced his retirement after winning the playoffs.

Tom's announcement came 22 years after his first season with the NFL and in a post on Instagram, he thanked his wife and children for standing by him but he has not revealed what is next for him.

"To my wife, Gisele, and my children Jack, Benny and Vivi. You are my inspiration. Our family is my greatest achievement,” he said.

“I always came off the field and home to the most loving and supportive wife who has done EVERYTHING for our family to allow me to focus on my career.

"Her selflessness allowed me to reach new heights professionally, and I am beyond words what you mean to me and our family. Te amo amor da minha vida.”