MOST motorists have been guilty at some time of driving a bit too vigorously and exceeding the speed limit.

But how cautious should Brits be? Is 10 per cent over the limit too much? Find out everything you need to know here.

Can you get fined for speeding 10% above the limit?

Although police are recommended to give drivers leeway, it isn’t guaranteed that you’ll get away with speeding 10 percent above the limit.

Sarah Lewis, a spokesperson for the AA said: "There used to be an unwritten rule that as long as you are driving within approximately 10 per cent of the speed limit, you would be unlikely to be handed a fixed penalty or speed awareness course.

"Ultimately it would be down to the discretion of the police force but it would be unusual for someone to be booked at 32mph."

Words like unlikely and unusual indicate that while plenty of people would let you off, that doesn’t always happen.

Sarah continued: "The idea that there is an allowance of around 10 per cent of the speed limit stems from general guidance for enforcement to account for the inaccuracies of some speedometers.

"We wouldn’t normally expect to see somebody penalised for driving a couple of miles per hour either side of the limit. However, that’s not to condone speeding and this shouldn’t be used as an excuse to habitually exceed the limits."

What are the penalties if you’re caught speeding?

If you believe you’ve been flashed by a speed camera, there will be a 14 day wait to get that confirmed.

A notice of intended prosecution is sent to the registered owner of the vehicle, and for minor offences, police will often offer the chance to take a speed awareness course instead of issuing fines and penalty points.

Although you have to pay for the course, and it usually takes up half a day, it keeps your license clean.

Those who already have points on their license, or have committed more serious speeding offences, will get a minimum £100 fine and three or six penalty points on their license.

The penalty can be as high as £1,000, or £2,500 if you were caught on a motorway.

If you collect more than 12 points in a three year period, you face being disqualified from driving - and you will have to wait four years before applying to have points removed.