A WOMAN has claimed she was forced to change out of a skimpy crop top to get into Universal Studios Orlando after being told her outfit was "inappropriate."

Whitney Paige, 26, said she felt "humiliated" and "targeted" because her "naturally big breasts" are sexualized and "make people uncomfortable."

She has slammed Universal for the demand, as she insists that her clothing wasn't against the rules of the Florida park.

In a video from June 2021, the young model is seen wearing a white sports bra and light green bicycle shorts as she and a friend get ready to go into the park.

"Are you excited?" she asks the other woman.

The video then cuts to a disappointed Paige, as she claims she's being told by an employee she has to leave and change her top before they can enjoy their day.

"So I guess my top is inappropriate for Universal - having a problem right now," she tells the camera.

"Apparently, I have to go change into a more appropriate top even though I've seen a lot of people here in sports bra-looking tops," Paige slams.

Paige, who is from Florida and has 1.6million followers on her Instagram account, said she was shocked with how the staff treated her.

"I was told I had to change my top to be able to enter.

"I think it's because I have naturally big breasts and it makes people uncomfortable but at far as I know my clothing wasn't against the rules.

"I feel like I was discriminated against because of the size of my breasts," she continued.

"I noticed other people staring and I felt really embarrassed. It was humiliating."

Paige added that she is sick of being treated differently than "smaller women."

"I felt like I was being targeted and it was the summer so it was hot, I didn't really understand [the issue] but having natural large breasts brings attention," she said.

"I ended up putting on another top over the sports bra, my friend had another top in the car.

"But I ended up taking it off later on in the park because it was hot and ugly. And the fact I was judged really pissed me off.

"Smaller women can wear whatever they want – having big breasts however gets sexualized."

Last June, Paige also claimed she was banned from Twitter after "jealous women" reported her for being "too hot."

She believes an underwear selfie she posted was what resulted in the ban.

The social media model explained: "The ban came as a complete shock to me as I’d never used Twitter other than to write a few comments about TV shows I was watching or share photos from my Instagram account.

"One day, I changed my cover photo to an innocent shot of me showing off my figure – but I was wearing underwear.

"And suddenly, my account was banned. It made me feel discriminated against because there are far worse pictures on Twitter."

She continued: "I’m sure that if I wasn’t so good-looking the photo would have stayed up.

“I firmly believe Twitter deleted my account because I’m too hot and jealous people who aren’t as attractive complained or said I was promoting sexual activity. It's not fair."

She said: “I feel extremely upset because I was able to grow the account to almost 100,000 followers and then I was banned for nothing.

"And they won’t get back to me at all. I’ve complained and complained but nothing happens.

“It’s not my problem that some people aren’t as good-looking as me."

Universal Studios Orlando was contacted for comment on Paige's claims.

According to its website: "Clothing that is deemed inappropriate or offensive will not be allowed into the parks."