RIHANNA ‘is set to raise her baby between Barbados and the US so child has the same culture and upbringing as her.’

The Barbados-born singer, 33, announced she is expecting her first child with boyfriend A$AP Rocky in a series of stunning baby bump pictures yesterday.

A source told The Sun: "Rihanna would love to raise the baby partly in Barbados as she wants child to have the same culture and upbringing as her.

"She's an island girl at heart - she loves her heritage, and is so proud to represent Barbados.

"She wants her baby to experience the warmth of the people and the beautiful surroundings too. She has lots of family there too. That is so important to her, and to A$AP too."

The Stay singer sparked pregnancy rumours when she appeared to have a "baby bump" while in Barbados last November.

She jetted to Barbados to be named a national hero of her home country.

The What's My Name hitmaker sent the internet into meltdown when she wore a clingy orange halterneck dress to the inauguration ceremony.

Many fans posted photos from the event on social media, claiming Rihanna has a visible baby bump in the gown.

The couple also sparked baby rumours with their baggy outfits at the MET Gala.

Just yesterday Rihanna delighted fans when she announced her pregnancy in a series of images taken as she strolled around New York with her partner over the weekend - wearing a £5k pink coat.

Despite the freezing weather, the superstar ditched a top beneath the coat and instead wore a string of pearls and a jewelled cross necklace.

The star, whose hits include Shut Up and Drive and Diamonds, and the rapper, also 33, have known each other for almost a decade, but their relationship turned romantic in 2020.

They stopped to kiss and hug as they strolled hand in hand, with A$AP tenderly kissing her head at one point

Fans speculated she was pregnant in November of last year after she reportedly asked staff not to smoke around her when she attended Barbados’ first-ever presidential inauguration.