Who are England's uncapped six?

It is a credit to Bailey that he’s done enough to impress the England head coach this season despite Bath’s grim run of form.

Also a talented cricketer, he played for England Under-20s and has been the preferred choice at 10 for Bath this season over Danny Cipriani. Having joined Bath as a teenager coming through the academy, there has been excitement around Bailey’s potential going back years, showing the kind of attacking creativity Bath are currently seeking to make a key part of their game.

His responses to adversity this season, including a missed match-winning kick in Bath’s opening-round 20-19 loss to Sale, have been impressive. Alongside his club team-mate Max Ojomoh, Bath appear to have a long-term pairing to build around.

Whether Bailey sees any Six Nations action with England is another matter, though, especially after the call-up of George Ford to the squad following Owen Farrell's injury setback.

Now officially a back-row foward after some uncertainty over his best position, Barbeary’s barrelling runs and turnover work have already won him plenty of supporters. With his natural power and energy he offers something a little different to England’s current back rows, and anyone who took in his performance against Toulouse will have been hugely impressed.

Barbeary’s work at the breakdown appeals given the current breakdown climate and number of penalties won by defences for holding on, and against Toulouse those moments from Barbeary bailed Wasps out of trouble.

How England use him will be interesting. The time will come where he could be a starter, at six or No 8, but right now the option to use Barbeary as a mammoth wreckingball off the bench, arriving to pummel tired defences, has to be getting Jones excited.

It’s easy to see why Jones might like Chessum - given he’s 6ft 8in and can shuffle easily between lock and blindside flanker. There was some expectation that Saracens’ Nick Isiekwe would earn a recall given his good form since he returned to the club, but Chessum appears to have leapfrogged him.

Part of the Leicester academy before joining Nottingham out of school, Chessum returned to Leicester last year under Steve Borthwick and has been an instant hit, with more lineout steals in the Premiership than any other Leicester forward this season. Borthwick said in December: “He has come in and worked hard to improve himself physically. His attitude to work has always been excellent but his desire and focus to improve have been really impressive and you saw that on the pitch.”

Courtney Lawes might be in the best form of his career, but is 32 and England long-term need to start thinking about a successor. Last year it appeared to be George Martin, Chessum's Leicester team-mate, who hasn't made the squad (but might be injured).

Part of the November squad without getting a Test appearance, Freeman now returns having since scored three tries in two starts for Saints in the Premiership, starting on the wing instead of his usual full-back slot. His sidestep and pace to break away for a recent try against Bristol almost looked effortless.

Not quite as tall as Freddie Steward but still a real presence at 6ft 2in. “A big, strong, strapping lad” was how Jones described Freeman back in October when the 20 year-old was first called up, while adding that Freeman has “a good feel for the game”.

Will he get a chance to show that in the Six Nations? Perhaps in the Italy game, but having already served almost a mini-apprenticeship with England during the autumn it would be useful to see what Freeman can do at Test level over the coming weeks.

Briefly with England in the summer before not featuring in any of the Tests, Hassell-Collins has continued his good form for London Irish this season and deservedly gets another call-up. Whether he can crack into the Test side is another challenge but there’s enough to like about Hassell-Collins to recognise he can play at the top level: particularly with his ability to beat the first tackler, combining good size at 6ft 4in and real pace.

Hassell-Collins leads the Premiership in clean breaks this season and ranks second for defenders beaten and metres gained, which is a difficult combination for England to ignore along with 21 tries in 47 Premiership games. Given that Jonny May has not been in his best form in recent weeks and Anthony Watson’s ACL injury has opened up a slot on the opposite wing, who knows.

Crucially, Hassell-Collins’ development in the other areas of his game - kicking, defence, under the high ball - has not stalled.

Northmore’s strike-rate more than anything has stood out this season, with six tries in six starts for the defending Gallagher Premiership champions.

He now joins his midfield partner from last Friday’s win over Cardiff Blues in Joe Marchant by getting an England call-up, capping an impressive couple of years. Northmore has followed his fellow Cardiff Met alumnus Alex Dombrandt in climbing up the ladder from university rugby towards Test status.

As recently analysed by Telegraph Sport, Northmore’s link-up play and technique in defence will have impressed the England coaching staff, along with his obvious pace too. The competition for a place in Harlequins’ midfield alongside Andre Esterhuizen seems to be bringing out the best of both Marchant and Northmore.

What do you expect to see from the new boys in the England squad? Let us know in the comments section below