Google has brushed off fears that the waning impact of pandemic lockdowns will put an end to the tech boom as it smashed Wall Street profit estimates.

Alphabet, Google’s parent company, revealed that sales in the fourth quarter of last year reached $75.3bn (£56.2bn), a 32pc increase on a year earlier. Profits rose by 36pc to $20.6bn. Shares rose by up to 7pc in after hours trading.

Alphabet also announced it would carry out a 20-for-one stock split, which should make its shares more accessible to retail investors.

The strong figures were driven by soaring spending on search adverts, the company’s most important business. Google is the world’s biggest advertising company and said revenues from its search engine had risen by almost 36pc.

Unlike many of its Silicon Valley rivals who have faced questions about how they will fare as life returns to normal after the pandemic, Google is poised to capitalise on resurgent advertising spending.

The company suffered more than other tech companies during the early days of the pandemic as spending on travel and job adverts, two major sources of income, dried up.

However, last year, it was the best performing of the “Big Tech” stocks, a group that also includes Apple, Facebook-owner Meta, Amazon and Microsoft.

Last month, the company paid $1bn for its central London office in what was seen as a vote of confidence in the future of the office.

Meanwhile on Tuesday it emerged that star investor Terry Smith had bought shares in Alphabet after shunning the search giant for more than a decade while shares rose more than 850pc.

Mr Smith now owns four out of five of US technology giants, following his purchase of Amazon in November.

Meta, formerly known as Facebook and Microsoft have been owned for several years while Apple does not feature.

Mr Smith, who pledges not to overpay for companies, has been taking advantage of market falls to add new names to his portfolio.

Alphabet shares are 10pc lower than their November 2021 record high. The Nasdaq 100 index, a benchmark for the US tech sector, has also fallen 10pc this year as investors reacted to central bank plans to raise interest rates.