Everton have parted company with women’s team manager Jean-Luc Vasseur after just 95 days in his role.

The former Lyon head coach, 53, was in charge for just 10 games in all competitions, and oversaw only one league victory.

Telegraph Sport understands the club’s senior management have been disappointed with recent results, but also that players in the squad were unhappy with some of Vasseur’s training methods.

Vasseur’s final match in charge was Sunday’s 4-0 win away to lower-league Huddersfield Town in the Women’s FA Cup, but sources have said the club had been considering his position prior to that game, off the back of three straight defeats.

In a statement, the club said: "Everton can confirm that Jean-Luc Vasseur has left his role as manager of the Club’s women’s team. Assistant coaches Frédéric Piquionne and Franck Plaine have also left the Club.

"Everyone at Everton would like to thank Jean-Luc, Frédéric and Franck for their service and wish them well for the future.

"Chris Roberts and Claire Ditchburn will take charge of the team on an interim basis."

In his six league matches, Vasseur oversaw three defeats, two draws and one win away to relegation-threatened Leicester City, but the team have appeared somewhat disjointed under his leadership.

He had replaced former manager Willie Kirk, who had predominantly been a popular figure at the Merseyside club but was surprisingly sacked on 16 October after just five league games of the season.

Tuesday's departure of Vasseur leaves the club looking for their third manager of the season and entering another period of uncertainty, in complete contrast to the stable growth they had appeared to be enjoying for the previous three seasons.

Kirk had taken over when the club were bottom of the WSL in December 2018 but slowly oversaw their rise to finishing fifth last season. They subsequently spent significantly in the transfer market last summer, adding nine new players, including breaking their club-record transfer fee to sign Swedish starlet Hanna Bennison for a six-figure sum.

But they are now 10th in the table, seven points clear of relegation danger but languishing 13 points behind the European qualification places.

The change comes just a day after the men's side formally appointed Frank Lampard as their new manager, in what has proved to be a busy week for the club off the field.