The football industry was facing urgent calls to finally establish a fund to support former players with dementia after a Crowdfunding page was set up to help pay the care costs for Blackburn Rovers legend Tony Parkes.

The former player, coach and manager, who is known at Ewood Park as ‘Mr Blackburn’, was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2019 but faces an uncertain future after the family’s entire savings were wiped out by the costs of his residential care.

His daughter, Natalie Parkes-Thompson, has always been convinced that her father’s job - and the repeated heading of footballs - caused his condition and that belief was reinforced following research which showed that former professionals are five times more likely to die of Alzheimer’s.

There is, however, still no industry fund to assist hundreds of former players facing huge associated care costs and, more than two years after being submitted, an application to recognise dementia in football as an industrial disease is still being considered by Government scientific advisors.

“Alzheimer’s doesn’t get any better and right now the future looks pretty bleak,” said Parkes-Thompson. “Dad worked all his life to provide a better future for me and my family but by the end there will be absolutely nothing left.

“A lot of these ex-professionals don’t have any money behind them now. It’s hard to think of all the many people we don’t know about, who have kept this private, and are suffering.”

Parkes-Thompson was previously forced to give up her job as a primary school teacher to care for her father but, with two young children and Parkes’s deteriorating condition, was forced to move him into care in 2020. Monthly costs of almost £4,000, which are due to rise by 12 per cent next month, have eaten through their savings, leaving the family home as their only remaining asset.

“Dad is currently in his seventh lockdown and every time they reopen he has deteriorated further,” said Parkes-Thompson. “He doesn’t respond well to window visits and phone calls are impossible. I just wait and hope he doesn’t think I have just abandoned him.

“He doesn’t remember my mum and I am not sure he actually understands what daughter means but he still knows me and that is something that I am forever grateful for.”

Ian Ford, who set up the Crowdfunder page, said: “The outlook isn't great for Tony or Natalie. Spiralling costs of Tony's continued care has taken its toll. It would be tragic to take him out of a place he is finally settled. However, the family have nothing left. Savings are all gone. All that is left is the family home, in which Natalie and her family live.”

The Professional Footballers’ Association has been calling for an industry-wide care fund since 2019 but has so far failed to reach agreement with football’s other stakeholders. The PFA Charity has said that it cannot afford residential or nursing home fees but can offer ad-hoc support for respite care or property adjustments.

Dawn Astle and Chris Sutton, whose fathers both died of dementia following careers as professional players, have consistently called for an industry-wide care fund and pointed to the PFA Charity’s net assets which, as of the most recent accounts, stand at £58.9 million.

Astle described the situation as “just awful..nowhere near good enough” and wants further PFA Charity funds to be used to help former players. Sutton said that it was “shocking”. The PFA Charity has said that it keeps a three-year reserve due to its short-term funding model. After 12 years as a player at Ewood Park during the 1970s and 1980s, Parkes spent two decades on the Blackburn Rovers coaching staff, which included six spells as caretaker manager. He was also Kenny Dalglish’s assistant during the greatest period in the club’s modern history, culminating with winning the Premier League in 1995. “Ewood is his happy place,” said Parkes-Thompson. “It always has been. It’s the place that gives me a glimmer of the dad I grew up with. It makes him smile. His memories are there.”