Welcome to Denmark, where Covid is over – again. Yesterday, the Scandinavian nation became the first country in Europe to put an end to all coronavirus-related laws. In the eyes of the Danish government and, crucially, the vast majority of its 5.8m citizens, the virus is no longer deemed a “critical threat to society”. Cases remain high – very high – but the Danes have moved on. Even if you test positive, there is no longer a legal obligation to self-isolate.

In the capital, Copenhagen, there was an atmosphere of cautious relief on Tuesday morning as people crammed into the Metro, onto commuter trains and buses, and into shops without face masks for the first time since November.

Even the new, more transmissible BA.2 omicron variant that now dominates infections in Denmark could not put people off. Tyra Grove Krause, director of infection preparedness at the country’s infectious diseases agency SSI, said there was nothing for it but to let the new wave “run through the population”.

“With omicron, it is impossible to stop the spread of infection, even with severe restrictions,” she said, before predicting that natural immunity would now combine with Denmark’s high vaccination rates to send the latest wave into decline by the middle of this month. As far as community health is concerned, Covid is now on a par with the common cold.

“It’s fantastic and I’m happy that I can go out and be young again, that we can go out and do all the things we used to do,” Stine Thrane Andreasson, a student, told neighbouring Sweden’s Sydsvenskan newspaper. “I didn’t think that restrictions were going to be taken away so soon.”

But Andreasson was still getting used to the new freedoms. “It feels like you’re doing something illegal when you go into a shop without a face mask,” she said.

Of course, Denmark has been here before. In September, it did almost exactly the same thing, only to U-turn in early November when omicron hit. Museums, cinemas, theatres and concert venues all closed over Christmas and masks and vaccine passports were required for almost everything else. In the face of uncertainty about the new variant, the country did not want to chance its health system becoming overwhelmed.

“Throughout the pandemic, our data shows that the key worry of Danes is not their own health, but overwhelmed hospitals,” says Michael Bang Petersen, a professor of political science and government advisor, who led the country’s largest behavioural project during the crisis.

Jens Flinck Bertelsen, an architect arriving for work in central Copenhagen on Tuesday, said there was an “ambivalent feeling”, given the current high infection rates, and the fact that restrictions had been lifted before.

“But I trust the authorities to have a good grip of the situation,” he says. “Even though the infection rates are very high and there’s a lot of people in hospital, the judgment is that it will not overload the health system if we open up.”