It comes as Mr Johnson arrived in Kyiv today for talks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky.

The country's foreign minister has said Britain, Poland and Ukraine are to announce a trilateral security pact to counter challenges from Russia.

At a press conference this evening, Mr Johnson said "we have to face a grim reality" as Russian troops gather on the Ukrainian border, adding "a further Russian invasion of Ukraine would be a political disaster, a humanitarian disaster, and for Russia and the world, a military disaster". Follow it here.

His phone call with Vladimir Putin has been rescheduled for Wednesday, after he was forced to cancel due to the publication of the "partygate" report.

With the Russian president breaking his silence at a press conference to say the US is using Ukraine to "contain" Russia - and Europe on the brink of conflict - Roland Oliphant analyses why the last thing Ukraine needs on the eve of war is an ally like Mr Johnson distracted by a sordid scandal.

Back home, Tory rebels have warned that "if it takes a permanently organised circus" to keep Mr Johnson in power, his premiership "isn't sustainable".

Critics of the Prime Minister conceded that he appeared to have "bought a bit more time" with his "upbeat" performance and promises of change at the 1922 committee on Monday night.

The atmosphere had been raucous in the Commons earlier as MPs held aloft copies of the report into Downing Street parties.

Here are the five ways Mr Johnson avoided questions on Sue Gray's report.

Tom Harris analyses why, once again, Sir Keir Starmer has overplayed his hand.

Yet by no means has the Prime Minister kicked all of his concerns into the long grass.

Peter Aldous, who has been an MP since 2010, revealed today he has put in a letter of no confidence in Mr Johnson, while the Speaker has criticised remarks made by the PM that Sir Keir "failed to prosecute Jimmy Savile".

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said today he could not substantiate the claim.

Downing Street has said the public will be told if Mr Johnson is given a fine for breaking lockdown rules.

Whatever happens next, "partygate" has been the biggest crisis of Mr Johnson's premiership.

Gordon Rayner analyses how the scandal brought the PM to the brink.

If he is to recover, polling expert John Curtice sets out why his challenge is to win back Leave voters.
• Jeremy Warner | Germany's marriage to euro tearing at the seams
• Michael Deacon | Why crime must be at an all-time low in Scotland
• Simon Briggs | Women's grand slam finals must be over five sets

Around the world: Kim 'withered away' in new film

A North Korean state media documentary has claimed Kim Jong-un has "withered" out of concern and hard work for his people, revealing that his body has been left so weak that he struggles to walk down a set of stairs. The documentary – 2021, A Great Victorious Year – appears to suggest Kim's dramatic weight loss last year was linked to his sacrificial sense of duty to the population, feeding into his growing cult of personality, reported NK News, the Seoul-based website that first revealed the new footage. Watch one of the most striking scenes, where he gingerly walks down a half-constructed staircase on a Pyongyang building site, carrying a blue umbrella and flanked by attentive officials.

Neil Hannon on the Troubles and his songs for Wonka