DELE ALLI’S Tottenham nightmare is officially over after he agreed a transfer to Everton that will not cost the Goodison side a penny until next season.

Newcastle made a late swoop to try and get the Spurs man on loan after missing out on Jesse Lingard.

But Dele becomes Frank Lampard's second signing after Everton confirmed his appointment this morning, following Donny van de Beek to Merseyside.

Under the terms of the two-and-a-half-year deal for the former England midfielder, 25, there is no upfront payment.

Instead, a series of clauses will kick in at various stages, with Spurs receiving the first tranche of £10million after Dele has made 20 appearances for the Toffees.

Although that would require Dele to return to the sort of form that made him one of the game’s hottest properties under Mauricio Pochettino.

On his move, Dele revealed: “I’m delighted to have signed for Everton, a huge club with a great fanbase and history.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

“I'm eager to get started and can't wait for my first game in an Everton shirt.

“I’m looking forward to helping the team and the opportunity to work with the new manager Frank Lampard."

Daniel Levy agreed to the unusual, incentivised payment structure because Everton have Financial Fair Play issues for this season.

But it was also a sign that Antonio Conte had made it clear that Dele had no future in N17 under his reign, as well as an acceptance by the Spurs hierarchy that the midfielder needs a change of scene.

Dele scored 46 goals in 146 Spurs appearances over the first three seasons after arriving from MK Dons for just £5m in 2015.

But he has scored just 21 in 123 games over the past three-and-a-half campaigns, with his only Prem goal in the past 18 months coming from the penalty spot at Wolves in August.

This season he has just eight Premier League starts.

Tanguy Ndombele, Giovani Lo Celso and Bryan Gil also left Tottenham on deadline day, with loans to Lyon, Villarreal and Valencia respectively.

Winger Dejan Kulusevski joined on an initial 18-month loan from Juventus with an obligation to buy in summer 2023 for £29million.

The Swedish star's transfer was announced minutes after Rodrigo Bentancur completed his £20m switch from the Old Lady to the Lilywhites.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals