Sir Keir was the director of public prosecutions between November 2008 and November 2013, but was not the reviewing lawyer for an investigation into Savile, who is now believed to have sexually abused as many as 500 young people, which took place in 2009.

A Reuters fact-check found no evidence that he was directly involved in the decision. He commissioned an investigation after Savile’s death and once his abuse had been revealed. Alison Levitt QC, in her findings, was critical of how the case had been handled.

Asked about the comments on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Tuesday, Dominic Raab, the Justice Secretary, admitted he was unable to provide evidence for Mr Johnson’s claim.

He said: “You’re talking [about] the comment that he made about prosecuting journalists and not prosecuting Jimmy Savile. This is the cut and thrust of parliamentary debate.

“I’m certainly not repeating it, I don’t have the facts. I’m not repeating it. One thing I would say, though, I don’t have the facts to justify that. That’s for him to decide. I can’t substantiate that. I think that [is] the cut and thrust of the exchanges.

“I think it is quite right to look at Keir Starmer’s record between 2008 and 2013. Conviction rates for sexual offences and rape fell between 2008 and 2013. It is to do with Keir Starmer’s leadership as DPP. I just said I cannot substantiate that claim.”

Sir Keir pointed out that Conservative backbenchers had been “disgusted”, telling Sky News: “It is a ridiculous slur peddled by Right-wing trolls ... they knew that he was going so low with that slur, with that lie. He does it because he doesn’t understand what honesty and integrity means.”

Julian Smith, the Conservative MP for Skipton and Ripon and a former chief whip, demanded on Tuesday that Mr Johnson withdraw what he described as a “baseless personal slur”.

Mr Johnson’s remark to Sir Keir was also labelled “a disgrace” by Nazir Afzal, a former chief prosecutor for north west England, who worked alongside the Labour leader.

Mr Afzal wrote on Twitter: “[The] reference to Jimmy Savile by Boris Johnson was a disgrace to Parliament and the office of the Prime Minister. It’s not true, I was there. Keir Starmer had nothing to do with the decisions taken. On the contrary, he supported me in bringing hundreds of child sex abusers to justice.”

Mr Johnson also faced a backlash from victims of Savile, with the lawyer representing them describing his claim about Sir Keir as “fundamentally baseless”.

Richard Scorer, the head of the abuse law team at Slater and Gordon, told the BBC’s Newscast podcast the Prime Minister was “weaponising” the experience of his former clients to “get out of a corner” while facing questions.

Mr Scorer said: “They’ve expressed upset and anger that it’s happened. Obviously, for most of them these events were many years ago – they’d rather put it behind them – but I think what they take particular exception to is the idea of their particular situation and their suffering being weaponised in this way.

“They all hold a range of political views. I think they do feel angry about this – at least the ones I’ve spoken to.

“This is fundamentally baseless. Certainly, from the point of view of my clients, who don’t want to get drawn into the party political aspect, they just feel that what was going on here was a prime minister who’s in a political corner using something associated with them to try and get out of that corner – and that feels absolutely reprehensible and wrong.”