Screen pass: A short pass to a receiver - usually a back - who has a 'screen' of blockers in front of him.

Slant route: Where the receiver will run straight downfield, then cut 45 degrees back towards the quarterback.

Spike: When the quarterback throws to ball to the ground right in front of them straight after a snap, losing a down. This does not count as intentional grounding, and is used to run down the clock at the end of games.

Sweep: A designed running play where the running back will one to run side covered by a number of blockers.

Throwaway: When the quarterback deliberately throws the ball out of bounds to avoid a sack.

Touchback: When a player touches the ball down on the ground or drops to one knee inside their own end zone after a kickoff or punt. This results in the receiving team starting with the ball in their own 25-yard line.

Wheel route: A route where a receiver - usually a running back, runs parallel to the line of scrimmage in the backfield before turning and running upfield.

Zone read: When a quarterback lines up alongside the running back, takes the snap and motions to hand the ball off. Whether he hands the ball off or keeps it himself depends on how he reads the defense.

Automatic first down: For some defensive fouls - such as pass interference - the offense is awarded a brand new set of downs, so is effectively given an automatic first down.

Chop block: When an offensive player blocks an opponent below the knee when a teammate is already blocking them above the waist. Penalty: Loss of 15 yards.

Clipping: When a player blocks an opponent from behind below the waist. Penalty: Loss of 15 yards.

Dead ball foul: A foul committed before or after an active play.

Defensive holding: When a defensive player grabs onto an opponent's body or uniform and does not made an attempt to catch the ball. Penalty: Loss of five yards, automatic first down.

Delay of game: When the offensive team doesn't put the ball into play before the play clock runs out. Penalty: Loss of five yards.

Encroachment: When a defensive player crosses the line of scrimmage and makes contact with an opponent before the ball is snapped. Penalty: Loss of five yards.

Face mask: When an opponent grab's an opponent's face mask on their helmet. Penalty: Loss of 15 yards.

False start: When an offensive player - normally a lineman - moves before the ball is snapped. Penalty: Loss of five yards.

Illegal formation: When the offense doesn't have exactly seven players lined up on the line of scrimmage for at least one count before the ball is snapped. Penalty: Loss of five yards.

Illegal motion: When a player on offense is moving forwards at the time of the snap. Penalty: Loss of five yards.

Intentional grounding: When the quarterback deliberately throws the ball to the ground while inside the pocket without giving anyone the opportunity to catch it in order to conserve time or avoid a sack. Penalty: Loss of down and loss of 10 yards from the spot of the foul, or a safety if the foul occurs inside the end zone.

Offensive holding: When a player on offense blocks a defender by grabbing hold of their body or uniform. Penalty: Loss of 10 yards.

Offside: When a player encroaches over the restraining line before or just as the ball is put into play. Penalty: Loss of five yards, replay of down.

Pass interference: When a player prevents an opponent from getting to the ball by holding or illegally blocking them. It can be caused by both the offensive and defensive team. Penalty for offensive pass interference: Loss of 10 yards. Penalty for defensive pass interference: Automatic first down from the spot of the foul/from the one-yard line if the foul occurred inside the end zone/half the distance to the goal if the line of scrimmage was already inside the one-yard line.

All-purpose yardage: The sum of all yards gained by a player during a game, including rushing and receiving on offense, yards made returning interceptions and fumbles on defense, and returning punts, kickoffs and missed field goals on special teams.

Bust: A term used to describe a promising draft pick - usually a first rounder - who flops in the NFL.

Camp fodder: A player signed to a roster during the offseason purely to make up the numbers - they have no chance of actually making the final team.

Completion percentage: The percentage of passes completed by a quarterback during a game/over a certain stretch.

Dual-threat quarterback: A quarterback who is adept at both passing and running the ball.

Fair catch: When a player makes a signal before catching a kickoff or punt, resulting in the ball going dead as soon as the catch is made.

Fourth down conversion: When the offensive team completes a play on fourth down that gets them a new set of downs. Normally teams will opt to punt or attempt a field goal on fourth down.

Game manager: A quarterback known for being conservative and making safe plays, relying more on the players around them to win the game.

Gridiron: A general term for the game of American football. Can also be used to refer to the field of play.

Gunslinger: A quarterback with a strong arm who likes to take risks and throw the ball deep downfield.

Hurry-up offense: When the offensive team tried to move down the field as quickly as possible, often abandoning the huddle to save time.

Hut: What a quarterback will shout to trigger his players to move.

Icing the kicker: When a team calls a time out just before the ball in snapped to the opposing kicker, in order to make them line up to kick again.

Juke: Evading a tackler with the use of quick feet or deceptive movement.

Man coverage: When every eligible receiver is covered by a specified linebacker or defensive back.

Muffed punt: When there is an "uncontrolled touch" of the football after it is punted.

Passer rating/quarterback rating: A score given to quarterbacks out of 158.3 which judges their performance based on completion percentage, passing yards, touchdowns and interceptions.

Prevent defense: When a defensive team makes use of deep coverage so as not to give up big passing plays, but leaving them more open to short yardage plays. Usually used when a team is protecting a lead late in the game.

Split: The distance between the feet of two adjacent offensive linemen.

Stuff: When the running back is tackled behind the line of scrimmage.

Three-point stance: When a lineman has two feet and one hand on the ground at the line of scrimmage.

Tweener: A versatile player who plays two or more positions.

Unbalanced line: When an offensive line lines up with a different number of players on each side of the ball.

West Coast offense: An offense which makes use of lots of short, easy passes with the aim of keeping hold of the ball and avoiding risks.

Zone coverage: When defensive players are assigned a certain area of the backfield to cover.

This guide has been updated ahead of the Super Bowl 2022.