An inquest at Westminster Coroner’s Court heard that an arrest warrant for Mr McCaskie had been issued three weeks prior to the incident.

Speaking after the incident, family members of Ms Chkaifi praised the driver for his “heroic” actions.

The inquest heard that Ms Chkaifi suffered a “truly shocking and distressing death”.

Family members, including her two sons, listened in to the short remote hearing on Tuesday.

Thousands of people signed a petition demanding the “heroic” driver not face criminal charges for his apparent attempt to save Ms Chkaifi.

In an earlier statement, released by the solicitor Tasnime Akunjee, the driver said: "I understand that the police are doing their job and that my being arrested is not unusual.

"However, I do not see why I as the person who tried to assist in the defence of other human beings remain arrested and on bail under suspicion of murder.

“I have asked my solicitor to contact the Metropolitan Police to request that they consider de-arresting me and begin treating me as a witness to a tragic event rather than as a criminal as they currently are.”

The driver was described him as a Muslim man who was on his way to work when he intervened in the attack.

He is also believed to be a married father-of-two originally from Chechnya.

"Abraham" said he was “deeply sorry” to learn Mr NcCaskie had died, adding: “It was never my intention to harm him, I just wanted to stop him from hurting anybody further.

"My only regret is that God did not allow me to be present at the scene sooner so that my intervention may have saved the life of the young woman concerned.”

Det Chief Insp Neil Rawlinson, the investigating officer, told the hearing: “Leon McCaskie and Yasmin Chkaifi had been in a relationship that ended several years ago. There were allegations of domestic abuse, and a stalking prevention order had been put in place against Leon.

“Leon had been arrested and charged for breaching this order, but failed to appear for his first hearing at court. A warrant was issued for his arrest on January 4 2022.

“The two parties lived very close to one another in the Maida Vale area. On Monday, January 24 2022 at about 9am, Leon accosted Yasmin in the street, and repeatedly stabbed her with a knife.”

He added: “A member of public in a passing car saw this and used his vehicle to drive into Leon in an attempt to stop the assault. Both Leon and Yasmin were declared deceased at the scene.

“An investigation has been taking place with me as the senior investigating officer. We have secured CCTV footage of the incident and obtained statements from several eyewitnesses who told us what they saw.

“We do continue to make efforts to get statements from other potential witnesses whose details we have. Police action between January 4 and 24 is currently subject to an independent investigation by the Independent Office for Police Conduct.”

Ms Chkaifi’s cause of death was given as multiple stab wounds.