Steve Borthwick has hailed Chris Ashton’s winning mentality, suggesting that the wing’s abrupt exit from three other Premiership clubs would not stop Leicester Tigers from offering him a chance to rejuvenate his career.

Ashton visited the Tigers training ground on Tuesday as he looks to secure a return to competitive rugby after his departure from Worcester Warriors was confirmed in December.

It is understood that Ashton did not take part in team training with Tigers at Oval Park and has not yet been offered a contract, although the 34-year-old free agent has been the subject of interest from a number of other teams.

Ashton is a former Saracens team-mate of Leicester head coach Steve Borthwick, as well as veteran scrum-half Richard Wigglesworth. His time at Worcester ended amid reports of disharmony with the Warriors’ coaching staff, following similar departures from Harlequins and Sale Sharks before that.

Should he eventually represent Leicester, Ashton would have six top-flight clubs on his CV. He began his rugby union career with Northampton Saints back in 2007 on the back of a cross-code switch from Wigan Warriors.

His try-scoring record, however, is not in question. Ashton sits third on the all-time list of Premiership try-scorers with 89. That puts him one shy of Mark Cueto and three behind Tom Varndell, who has led the standings since February 2017.

'Chris is someone who is determined to win, very driven and very, very competitive'

“We go a long way back,” said Borthwick on Tuesday. “We played together many, many years ago. I met with him and had a chat just to see where he was at. It’s the first time I’ve spoken to him in a long time. It was really just a sound-out conversation.”

Borthwick also coached Ashton when the latter won what will surely be the last of his 44 England caps between November 2018 and February 2019.

“My experience of Chris is someone who is determined to win, very driven and very, very competitive,” Borthwick said.

“When I played with him, I always enjoyed that. It doesn’t always mean you’re nice and pally. In a driven environment, it’s great to have those people.

“That’s the way I always found him when I was playing alongside him. That’s the way I found him playing against him. That’s what I heard from him when I coached against him in the England squad. I regard that competitiveness as a strength.

“In terms of how and what has happened with other teams, I have no idea and not a huge amount of interest, to be honest. It’s none of my business.

"I just take the guy on what I see and had a chance to chat with him and catch up today.”

Such comments resonate with those made by Eddie Jones in January 2016 upon naming Ashton in his very first England squad.

“He’s mad as a cut snake,” Jones said. ”He plays with a lot of energy. He’s emotional, he scores tries. He’s a real winner to me.”

Plans to select Ashton were infamously thwarted by a 10-week ban after the player was found guilty of making contact with the eye area of Luke Marshall, the Ulster centre, in a European fixture for Saracens. Ashton had to wait almost three more years to end his international exodus.

It is unlikely that age will be a factor should Leicester feel as though Ashton can add value to a squad that already boasts wing options including Nemani Nadolo, Harry Potter, Guy Porter, Hosea Saumaki, Kini Murimurivalu and Kobus van Wyk

In Aled Walters, they have a renowned head of performance and have explicitly targeted players in their 30s as a recruitment strategy.

James Tozer, co-founder of analytics company Oval Insights, which have advised Borthwick on signings over the past two years, told Telegraph Sport last week that his machine-learning models had been “very good at identifying which guys in their 30s are still performing close to their peak, helped by the genius of Aled Walters”.