A Metropolitan Police officer who joked about raping women at knifepoint was allowed to keep his job - while two others sacked for sharing misogynistic, homophobic and racist messages were granted anonymity by the force, it can be revealed.

Dame Cressida Dick, the Metropolitan Police commissioner, is understood to have been hauled in for a meeting with Sadiq Khan, the London mayor, over the findings - which are the latest embarrassment for the force.

Sources close to the mayor said he was "furious" at the report, which found that a group of 14 officers based at Charing Cross police station shared dozens of vile exchanges on social media.

They were uncovered when investigators from the police watchdog carried out a trawl of their mobile phones.

There were also messages that were deeply racist and homophobic in nature.

Mr Khan is understood to believe the findings further damage public confidence in the beleaguered force in the wake of the murder of Sarah Everard and amid the row over the police's handling of Downing Street "partygate" allegations.

Priti Patel, the Home Secretary, said: “Being a police officer is a privilege which has been abused by these sickening officers.

“It has been clear for some time that there are problems with the culture of the Metropolitan Police, which is why last year I tasked the Angiolini Inquiry and the police inspectorate with investigating these deeply concerning issues.

“I expect the Metropolitan Police and the Mayor of London to implement the recommendations of this report as soon as practically possible. The public rightly expects the behaviour of the police to be beyond reproach - standards must be raised.”

In one message, an officer wrote on WhatsApp: "I would happily rape you," while another officer was referred to as "mcrapey raperson".

Another wrote: "Getting a woman into bed is like spreading butter. It can be done with a credit card but it's quicker and easier to use a knife."

Another officer wrote: "If I was single I would happily chloroform you."

In further exchange, an officer wrote: "My dad kidnapped some African children and used them to make dog food."

Many messages shared, made references to domestic violence, including one which read: "And my bird won't stop taking the p---. Swear to got [sic] I'm going to smack her."

When challenged, many of the officers dismissed the exchanges as "laddish banter" - but the Independent Office for Police Conduct said it was deeply worrying.

Of the 14 officers investigated, two were dismissed for gross misconduct and put on the barred list, preventing future employment with the police. Both were granted anonymity by the misconduct panel.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "Having considered the representations made, the independent chair directed that the two officers should be granted anonymity. It would not be appropriate to comment further."

It is understood that the two officers who were dismissed were responsible for the majority but not all of the offensive messages.

A further four officers attended misconduct meetings, while a further two received management action and another officer received "practice requiring improvement", a process that tackles conduct which falls short of the expectations of the public and the police service.

One of the officers who attended a misconduct meeting also received the "practice requiring improvement" process.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman confirmed that nine officers were still serving in the force and one of those who resigned has since returned as a contractor in a staff role.

The report comes as the Metropolitan Police is still reeling from the fallout following the kidnap, rape and murder of Sarah Everard by Wayne Couzens, a serving officer.