Ever since the pandemic triggered a house price boom, first-time buyers have been competing with movers and investors over a short supply of homes for sale.

Parents and grandparents gifted record amounts to help loved ones buy a home last year, giving them a fighting chance against the more affluent competition. But passing on wealth comes with myriad tax rules and family members could end up unnecessarily paying money to HM Revenue & Customs if not done properly.

Accessing wealth can be difficult as funds are often tied up in bricks and mortar, and only passed on following the death of a benefactor.

To overcome this, many homeowners have turned to equity release to take a tax-free lump sum from their properties and help relatives buy their own home. A fifth of equity release plans taken out last year were used to support family, according to Key, an adviser.

Decades of house price rises and more recently, falling equity release interest rates, have buoyed the resurgence. More than 214,000 people have tapped into their property wealth using lifetime mortgages, the most popular way of releasing equity, since 2015.

When Valerie Clapton, a 69-year-old retired early years practitioner, saw an advert for equity release with Key Retirement four years ago she jumped at the opportunity to pass on wealth to her daughters.

"I had some savings but I didn't want to touch them yet. I retired at 60, although I knew I wouldn't get the state pension for a few more years, and so was fortunate to have my private pension to tide me over," said Ms Clapton.

She released £10,000 from her home in Edinburgh and used the funds to help her children. One daughter used the cash to buy a house and the other used it for home improvements. Ms Clapton put the remainder of the funds into her pension.

A lifetime mortgage allows borrowers to keep complete ownership of their home until they die, or until they enter long-term care. When either of these life events occur, homeowners repay the money owed, plus interest, through the sale of their home.