Friends, while you are busy fighting the “right” hand (CONvid-1984 tyranny), the “left” hand (other tyranny) is moving right along. It’s wickedly ingenious. It is a global conspiracy that is moving as rapidly as possible to bring about tyranny, despotism, totalitarianism, democide, eugenics, and global domination by a few. The players are a “who’s who” in finance, economics, technology, science, government, world forums and organizations, and the “blue bloods” who view themselves as “better” to “govern” the masses more than the people themselves. To achieve their goal, these wicked individuals have gain cooperation from State and local governments, agencies, school boards, medical organizations, medical professionals, scientists, those operating at federal levels, and misguided individuals who seek “relief” through “solutions” that actually play into the hands of the wicked.

It would take too much writing space to go over all of this. But, here are some stories that point to exactly what was outlined above.

https://justthenews.com/government/courts-law/movement-form-convention-states-amend-constitution-gains-steam – Nebraska and Wisconsin have joined the push for a Convention of the States, joining Mississippi, Georgia, Alaska, Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, Indiana, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arizona, North Dakota, Texas, Missouri, Arkansas, and Utah. This brings the number of States who seek to “amend” the Constitution to 17. It should come as no surprise that members of the elephant organization in Nebraska and Wisconsin support a “ConCon”, which is another name for the Convention of the States. Remember, it is Mark Meckler and Michael Farris are pushing this “grass roots” effort. Currently, 15 States have active legislation working for a “ConCon”, while eight States have legislation that has passed in one chamber.

https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/01/31/rep-jim-banks-lists-11-ways-democrats-anti-china-bill-is-a-surrender-to-the-xi-regime/ – the supposed “Anti-China” COMPETES Act, is anything but anti-China, as Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN) discovered. Banks found 11 failings in the bill along with measures to implement climate change policy, immigration and VISA carveouts, training US military to “combat” climate change events, include Critical Race Theory inspired policies, increases wasteful spending, allows China a “global” platform while inviting the communist nation to steal US intellectual policy and promote censorship at campuses in the united States, as well as others. Basically, this bill would help China at our expense.

https://www.infowars.com/posts/soros-calls-for-regime-change-in-china/ – George Soros, the Nazi Germany collaborator, has called for a regime change in China, calling the communist nation the “world’s most powerful authoritarian state” and “the greatest threat that open societies face today.” But, don’t be fooled. Soros is engaging in the Hegelian Dialectic. His call for regime change in China echoes the sentiment of many “conservatives” in the united States. What better way to control the opposition than lead it yourself? Soros has thrown millions, if not billions, of dollars to back anti-American causes such as Black Lives Matter, murder of babies in the womb, and detrimental immigration policies destroying the united States. Moreover, Soros has back many US district attorneys who now oversee prosecution in our major cities.

https://thenewamerican.com/christianity-is-being-outlawed-and-few-are-noticing/ – While this is happening in foreign western nations, it won’t be long before it comes to the backyard of the US. It’s ugly head appeared years ago and is gaining steam. What are you seeing happening in the government indoctrination centers for children ages K – 12, and centers for higher indoctrination measures?

https://cnsnews.com/article/international/cnsnewscom-staff/pope-francis-taxation-sign-legality-and-justice-it-must – Going right along with the previous article, the Pope is promoting taxation as a means of wealth redistribution, which is anti-biblical. Read his full speech and you will see what he is advocating and promoting to those who subscribe to Roman Catholicism. It is, in essence, socialism.

And, last, but certainly, not least, but will conclude this point, is this gem.

https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/heavily-armed-german-police-officers-raid-illegal-mask-free-school-started-by-parents/ – Parents in Germany were protecting their children from the harmful effects of mask-wearing by opening a school, not “registering” it with the German government, and teaching their children in a mask-free environment. On January 20th, 30 – 35 government thugs, aka “police”, raided the school wearing masks, full gear, and brandishing automatic weapons and batons. The 15 children, ages 4 – 14, attempted to flee to the upstairs but were stopped from doing so by these agents of the state. The thugs separated the children from the parents, gathered the children on the second floor, and proceeded to interrogate the children for four hours. These thugs intimidated the children using threats of removing them from their parents and sending them to juvenile homes. If that weren’t enough, these thugs told parents they would need to file a missing persons report in order to get their children returned to them. Remember, in Germany, homeschooling is banned. Again, while this is in a foreign country, it is plausible this type of action could make it to the united States, considering what the government is doing in education today. Moreover, when COVID-19 quarantine camps, mandated injections, and injection passports began appearing overseas, many doubted it would come to the US. What are you seeing in that regard?

Friends, we are being attacked along all fronts. While it is important to fight the CONvid-1984 measures, it is also important to realize these measures are just the tip of the surface. The measures have been used to advance an agenda. That agenda continues unabated, full steam ahead, as these measures are being fought and government entities are “doubling down” on their tyranny. Solutions, that are not solutions, such as the ConCon or Convention of the States, that are now gaining steam in State legislatures in the US will do nothing to stop any of it. What it will do is afford an opportunity for the Constitution to be replaced under a ruse.

We have the power and authority to stop this. But, it is going to take more than protests to do it. In our hearts, we know the solution. Unfortunately, there are many who refuse to see it.

Article posted with permission from Sons of Liberty Media