Amid controversy about misinformation and censorship, Joe Rogan, Spotify’s leading podcaster, has vowed to “do better” at obeying his master and complying with their propaganda. Rogan’s bow to the ruling class proves no one is really on the side of freedom except those who object to a ruling class to begin with.

Joe Rogan admitted today that he doesn’t “always get it right” on his podcast and promised to “do better” going forward as Spotify scrambled to contain the growing backlash to the ex-Fear Factor host’s take on Covid-19 vaccines, according to a report by Deadline. The same day that CEO Daniel Ek announced adding content warnings and disclaimers to the streaming service, Rogan took to social media to “address some of the controversy taking place over the past several days” with Neil Young and Joni Mitchell pulling their tunes off Spotify. The duo has a big problem with Rogan’s vaccine “misinformation,” as Young called it.

Use your own discernment and critical thinking, but it sure looks like Rogan and his podcast are nothing more than a psyop (psychological operation). And we are not the only ones who think this could be the case:

Instead of sticking to liberty, freedom, and free speech, Rogan apologized for not being a good little slave for the ruling class. Self-proclaimed Neil Young fan Rogan said he was “very sorry” the iconic musicians felt they had to get off Spotify because of him. “I most certainly don’t want that,” Rogan declared Sunday. Copping to the fact a lot of what he says on his hugely popular podcast is “not that prepared or fleshed out,” one-time self-described “moron” Rogan also thanked his $100 million paymasters Spotify for “being so supportive during this time and I’m very sorry that this is happening to them.”

“If there’s anything that I’ve done that I could do better, it’s having more experts with differing opinions right after I have the controversial ones,” The Joe Rogan Experience host said, noting he agreed with Ek’s disclaimer and content warning plan. “I would most certainly be open to doing that. And I would like to talk to some people who have differing opinions on the podcasts in the future. I do all the scheduling myself and I don’t always get it right.”

Translation: Sorry to disappoint you, master. I’ll obey and comply like all the other slaves.

There is no freedom left, and the illusion that you have any should have crumbled away by now. Wake up, slaves, because this is not going to end well if you keep supporting those who rule over you and have one goal: complete ownership of humanity. If you haven’t figured out that this slave planet wants nothing more than to own you, you may have a difficult time navigating the coming years.