As RCMP Retreat From Trucker Protesters, Some RCMP Nazis Tell Truckers “It’s Not An Option We Have” To Go Against Tyrants (Video)

OK, let’s be abundantly clear: When police side with tyrants against the people and enforce either unlawful mandates or unjust, pretended laws, they are agents of the state and, therefore, enemies of the people. Such seems to be the case with some of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

Evidence of this is show as they tried to enforce a barricade, which the people broke through.

Of course, the truckers and those supporting them have a lot on the line and they are not intent on leaving until the mandates are fully dropped against them, and they demonstrated that in their chants for freedom.

By the way, the truckers and farmers broke through the barricade.

However, it was this interaction that should be a wake up call to what these agents of the state are doing. We saw it in Nazi Germany where the Nazis declared they were just doing their job by following unlawful dictates of tyrants from the top down.

During this interaction, the truckers and supporters spoke kindly to the RCMP that were present who told them they couldn’t stay there that long to which the truckers responded that they will be there till the demands are met.

However, the truckers employed the RCMP to join them against their superiors who are seeking to enforce the unlawful dictates of criminal, Allah worshipping, pedophile Justin Trudeau. The response from the RCMP Nazis? “It’s not an option we have.”

Oh, yes it is! The difference between the truckers and their supporters is that they are willing to lay it all on the line for liberty. These Nazis think that because they wear a badge that no justice will ever come to their front door. They are sadly mistaken.

One last thing I will point out is that it seems apparent that the truckers are giving the priority of where the battle will be fought and by whom. Watch as they call upon the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ in the model prayer that Jesus taught His disciples to pray after the manner that He did.

Godspeed brothers! Fight the good fight of faith as good soldiers of Jesus Christ. Victory has already been won. Now, it’s time to see it manifest in this situation.

Article posted with permission from Sons of Liberty Media