As with most agendas being perpetrated on human beings, those who manufactured the alleged “crisis” are those profiting from it, and some of these globalists are so slick, they can sell ice cubes to eskimos. Parts 1-5 of this 9-part series revealed the Social Emotional Learning PreK-Adult obedience training being instilled through the education system and beyond, many who are involved, and just how far along this psychological agenda is. Part 6 explains the human capital aspect, and shows the private sector funding that has been pumped into this agenda to train the obedient future workforce. This global agenda is already operating in 110 countries and billions are pouring into it.

READ:

 Part 1: Introduction

 Part 2: The Programming

 Part 3: Spirituality in Education Programming

 Part 4: WEF Vision for Global Education System

 Part 5: U.S. Department of Education & Multiple Agencies Involved

“An emerging understanding of brain development has revealed a remarkable period of elasticity during adolescence — nearly a second infancy, and a second chance on rapid change to that support a thriving adulthood.” – call to action by Carnegie Corporation of New York

Everything the globalists pour money into is self-serving, despite their efforts to manipulate people into believing they do everything for the good of mankind. This particular agenda is no different. They are “investing” in “changing” the minds of children (and parents) to control all aspects of their characteristics and behavior, thinking, emotions, and beliefs so they can mold them to be their future workforce in a digital world where everyone’s moves, access, behavior, words, and spending is all tracked through blockchain and a social scoring system they’ve long been building.

According to researchers at Columbia University, in 2015 they determined that SEL programs have a strong return on investment (ROI) over long periods of time, stating that the programs generated an average return of $11 per $1 invested. Here is the full which was funded by the NoVo Foundation, a foundation that is controlled by Peter Buffet with the initial donation from his father Warren of 350,000 shares (valued at $1 million) of Berkshire Hathaway.

Those involved in furthering this agenda, insist that “character” is what is most important when it comes to school, career, and life success, and under the guise of the need to change ones “character” they advocate for policy change to promote social and economic change. Whereas ones “character” certainly plays an important role in life, these folks want to bend it to their benefit.

According to Professor James J. Heckman, “Starting early gives a greater return. Investment in high-quality, early childhood development from birth – it makes dollars and sense.” Heckman has served as the Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, where he directs the Economics Research Center and the Center for the Economics of Human Development, since 1973. It’s no coincidence that CASEL (co-founded by Eileen Rockefeller Growald) is based out of Chicago, or that the Rockefellers have deep ties in Chicago, including the fact that John D. Rockefeller was the founder of the University of Chicago.

Much of Heckman’s work focuses on “models of individuals,” “lifecycle skill formation,” and early childhood development, all of which has had quite an influence on policymakers. His “Heckman Equation” project was funded by the Pritzker Children’s Institute and the Buffet Early Childhood Fund. Neither is surprising, with both having ties to this overall agenda. As noted above, NoVo funded the ROI study on SEL programs, at the request of CASEL.

As documented in part 3 of this series, the Lisa and John Pritzker Family Fund donated $300,000 to the Center for Healthy Minds to advance its research on cultivating well-being and relieve suffering. They cultivate this “well-being” through smartphone apps that “train brains,” with projects funded by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, NIH, NCCIH, and NIMH (who also funds CASEL). In 2017, J.B. Pritzker and Heckman wrote an op-ed for The Hill, urging the new administration to subsidize early childhood education from birth to age three, and expand access to preschool starting at age four. They’ve spent decades trying to break apart the family unit, so they could use the “single mom” card for their agendas.

What is the Heckman Equation project? They sum it up as “invest, develop, sustain, and gain.” They want to invest in early human development of cognitive and social skills from birth to age five, sustain it through education all the way up through adulthood, and “gain a more capable, productive and valuable workforce that pays dividends to America for generations to come.”

They argue that they need to get them while they’re young because “skills developed through quality early childhood education last for a lifetime.” Though they want big investments toward preschool, they are eager to get their hands on them at birth, indicating that their research shows that birth-to-five high-quality education will provide a higher “rate of return” than preschool alone, with a 13% ROI. They claim that this return on investment will mean better life outcomes, better health, quality of life, less crime, higher IQ, better employment, and an “increase in mother’s labor income as a result of subsidized childcare.”

The 13% ROI is based on two preschool experiments (ABC/CARE) conducted in North Carolina in the 1970’s, which provided comprehensive developmental resources with access to nutrition, health care and early learning, to disadvantaged African-American children from birth to age five. This entailed creating a treatment group and control group in which some received the high quality treatment, while others utilized “low quality alternative childcare centers or in-home care.” Their accumulated research involved data that was collected from birth until age 8, on cognitive and socio-emotional skills, home environments, family structure, and family economic characteristics. ABC/CARE provided childcare to the parents of the “treated” group for more than nine hours a day for five years. After age 8, they continued to collect data on cognitive and socio-emotional skills, education, and family economic characteristics at ages 12, 15, 21, and 30, with a full medical survey and detailed criminal activity at age 35.

Based on those studies, Heckman argues that it is a relevant study today, and that the negative effects of a disadvantaged early childhood are similar across races. The study states that treatment had significantly better life outcomes than those who stayed at home or who enrolled in low quality childcare centers. This study is all about separating the children from their mother at birth and getting them into programs that align with their overall agenda. Just imagine 9 hours of programming in children, every day for five long years.

While Heckman and this study may refer to it as “disadvantaged early childhood,” they want this system in place for ALL children, which is evident by the $400 billion free preschool for ALL, stuffed in the Build Back Better Bill they want passed. It’s no different than the claim of “poor people across the world don’t have a digital ID, therefore we ALL need digital IDs,” or “4.5% of the population identify as LGBTQ, therefore we all need to assign ourselves new pronouns,” or “some people don’t have access to internet in poor countries, therefore every child in the entire world needs to be plugged into the internet.” See their game?

They speak their intentions in plain language. Read it exactly as is stated, then consider who is funding it:

“ABC/CARE improved the economic prospects of treated children and their mothers, allowing the latter to enter the workforce and increase earnings while their children gained the foundational skills to make them more productive in the .”

Below are some of the biggest private sector funders and supporters driving this agenda, who play an instrumental role in the promotion, research, policymaking, and profiting. This is by no means a complete list of those funding and supporting this obedience training and brainwashing agenda, but are coincidentally some of the same billionaire philanthropists profiting from the Covid agenda, vaccine industry, climate change, and other facets of the UN 2030 agenda they are all a part of.

Billions in state and federal grants are covered under the legislation section in part 7 of this report, which also directly links to the players in this chapter because of their influence over legislatures on policy making.

In addition to their vital role in funding CASEL and working with the Fetzer Institute through their Collaborative for Spirituality in Education, which was covered extensively in part 3, they are also funding the Collaborative Districts Initiative (CDI), which was launched in 2011 by the NoVo Foundation (Buffet) and CASEL (Rockefeller), to get school districts across the country implementing SEL, and are likely trying to get the “spiritual education” into it at the same time.

They are also involved with and funding The International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity which was created in 2015, and is located in New York, just a 2-min walk from Rockefeller Center.

This commission was allegedly co-convened in 2015 by the Prime Minister of Norway, the Presidents of Malawi, Indonesia, and Chile, and the Director-General of UNESCO. It is chaired by the United Nations Special Envoy for Global Education, Gordon Brown, and supported by 26 high-level commissioners consisting of former heads of state and government and leaders in various fields, including former World Bank president Jim Yong Kim, Jack Ma, and Lawrence Summers, all of whom Corey’s Digs has reported on extensively, and all have deep ties with the Clintons as well.

Their commission has more than 300 partners in 105 countries, with a primary focus on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 4:

Essentially, they gather the funds, and convince and coerce world leaders and policymakers to carry out and enforce their stated agendas, just as with every other agenda these same folks orchestrate.

They have established the International Finance Facility for Education (IFFEd) as a financing engine for lower-middle income countries, or as they put it, 80% of the world’s children. They are utilizing catalytic grants and guarantees, and multiple donor resources by a factor up to four.

UNICEF assessed that they will need to secure $474.5 billion to scale up the use of EdTech, of which $428 billion is for connecting every learner to the internet, as well as an additional $498 billion to make data usage affordable for all.

Following suit with the World Economic Forum’s white paper on ‘New Vision for Education: Fostering Social and Emotional Learning through Technology’ (covered in part 4), they have produced a working paper titled ‘Financing for the EdTech Ecosystem,’ whereby they reference the WEF paper. Of course, Covid-19 was once again the frontrunner for why wiring kids into technology is so critical. Much of the language used throughout this report is identical to the WEF’s. They are determined to build their blockchain of digital global citizens while “training brains” through apps.

In 2016, they produced a report titled ‘The Learning Generation: Investing in education for a changing world,’ which is an action plan to finance and expand education to 260 million children who are not in school. They state their intentions are to diversify the education workforce, mobilize more and better finance, strengthen delivery mechanisms, and transform learning. In this report, they make clear that the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity was formed to…

“Summon the best evidence necessary to inform what we present today: an agenda for action that will add up to the largest expansion of educational opportunity in modern history.”

This isn’t the only endeavor UNESCO is involved in when it comes to SEL. They have also teamed up with the World Bank and UNICEF on other projects to move this agenda along, as documented in part 4. The World Bank published ‘Learning and Resilience: The Crucial Role of Social and Emotional Well-being in Contexts of Adversity’ as far back as 2013, with special emphasis on communities and families being involved in the learning process and delivery of SEL, and how to “operationalize” SEL programming by embedding the delivery of its psychosocial activities into the education system.

The Fetzer Institute funds both CASEL and Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, in addition to numerous education-related studies with disturbing criteria, and are partners with Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors in the Collaborative for Spirituality in Education. This, along with all of their funding was covered in Part 3.

In October 2010, CASEL, with the University of Illinois at Chicago Social and Emotional Learning Research Group, published “Compendium of Preschool Through Elementary School: Social-Emotional Learning and Associated Assessment Measures,” funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Kirlin Charitable Foundation, the NoVo Foundation, the Rauner Family Foundation, and the University of Illinois at Chicago.

In 2016, The Aspen Institute created the National Commission on Social, Emotional, and Academic Development (NCSEAD) with $871,680 in funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for its creation, which was also funded by the Carnegie Corporation.

In October 2018, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation funded CASEL $550,000 for the sole purpose of Rockefeller–co-founded–CASEL maintaining their “highest leverage role” of the SEL agenda:

In January, 2019 The Aspen Institute’s National Commission on Social, Emotional, & Academic Development released their recommendations for the new vision on the education system and how policymakers can make this change – “From A Nation At Risk To A Nation At Hope.”

Between 2016-2021, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have funded over $25 million specifically for “social and emotional learning” programs, but the first grant was in November 2007 in the amount of $125,000 to the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois to “support research strategies for the social, emotional, and academic learning of preschool and elementary school students.” This likely funded the work being done in conjunction with CASEL to get SEL further off the ground and into schools.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has funded New Profit Inc. over $50 million since 2014 for K-12 Education, with a minimum of $3 million marked as “social and emotional learning.”

New Profit Inc. was founded in 1998 by Vanessa Kirsch, has funded CASEL millions to advance the SEL agenda, and New Profit’s managing partner Shruti Sehra holds a position on the CASEL board. According to New Profit, “SEL’s impact is long-term with an 11:1 return on investment, meaning that for every dollar invested there is an $11 return.” They also state that they have had a longstanding relationship with CASEL dating back to their collaboration on the “Reimagine Learning Initiative,” and have partnered with them on leadership and board development and strategic planning for growth and impact.

In 2010, a federal “Social Innovation Fund” was created to expand nonprofits with a $50 million program, and $5 million went directly to New Profit, Inc. The executive director of the fund was Paul Carttar who had worked at New Profit before joining the government. He allegedly recused himself from the grant-making process, but an audit was allegedly done on the Social Innovation Fund grant process due to some raising questions over conflicts of interest to some organizations who received grants.

New Profit and Deloitte Consulting LLP have been collaborating for nearly 20 years, which includes pro bono support from Deloitte’s consultants to work with New Profit’s staff to assist with New Profit’s grantee-partners. Thus far, they’ve built up 34 high-impact organizations utilizing this strategy.

Deloitte Consulting, a member of the World Economic Forum, collaborated in preparing the white paper ‘A Blueprint for Digital Identity: The Role of Financial Institutions in Building The Digital Identity’ that was covered in Corey’s Digs report on the Global Landscape on Vaccine ID Passports part 3. It all ties together.

Between 2013 and 2021 the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has funded Common Sense Media over $3 million in education-related grants. Common Sense Media partnered with Project Zero at the Harvard Graduate School of Education to develop a “Digital Citizenship Curriculum” which includes an array of brainwashing lessons such as “how can we be good digital citizens?” for second-graders. Gates also funded Harvard (see below). Common Sense Media created a “SEL in Digital Life Resource Center” to help everyone integrate SEL into their digital life, using CASEL-aligned activities, through the new Digital Citizenship Curriculum.

Gates has also funded over $85 million to the American Institutes for Research, who has produced several reports on the benefits of social and emotional learning that are often referenced to promote SEL and for policy and legislative purposes.

The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation teamed up to fund CASEL’s Guide to Effective SEL Programs.

In 2021 alone, the Gates Foundation has committed nearly $7 million in grants toward advancing SEL, to the National Equity Project, Kingmakers of Oakland, New Profit Inc., Committee for Children, Facing History and Ourselves, EL Education Inc, CASEL, and Tyton Partners Consulting, LLC. One program is to “pilot the Facing History School Model, a bold new program for promoting whole-school adoption of equitable teaching practices by embedding social emotional learning, equity and civics into every aspect of school culture and curriculum.”

In December 2021, the Gates Foundation granted over $5.3 million to the Educational Resources Impact Fund LP “To accelerate key R&D projects for high-quality OER developers and providers by pooling capital into a proof-of-concept impact fund.” OER stands for “open educational resources,” which are learning materials that are shared in the public domain to teachers and learners without the need for permission or licensing. The fund was just created as a limited partnership on August 19, 2021, and the grantee location is Brooklyn, NY.

None of this is surprising, as Bill Gates nearly single-handedly funded and implemented Common Core standards in 2010.

To be clear, Bill Gates is once again using his foundation as the revolving door of fresh printed money to roll through to fund the research, universities, programs, creation of commissions, curriculums, and media to advance the SEL agenda on a global scale. Here is a list of organizations and institutions he has funded for the specific SEL agenda, which does not include the millions in other education-related grants.

Auburn School District #408

 Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois

 City Year

 Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL)

 Committee for Children

 Common Sense Media

 Danielson Group

 EL Education, Inc.

 Facing History and Ourselves

 Federal Way School District #210

 Fund for The City of New York

 Harvard Graduate School of Education

 i-ACT

 Kent School District #415

 Kingmakers of Oakland

 National Equity Project

 National Public Education Support Fund

 New Profit Inc.

 Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction – WA

 Peer Health Exchange, Inc.

 School’s Out Washington

 Seattle University

 Sound Discipline

 The Achievement Network

 The Aspen Institute

 Transforming Education, Inc.

 Tyton Partners Consulting, LLC

 University of Texas at Austin

 University of Washington Foundation

 WestEd

 Yale University

Just go here to see how many research projects Gates funded to build a case for SEL for policymakers.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, along with the Echidna Giving, Einhorn Family Charitable Trust, Funders’ Collaborative for Innovative Measurement (FCIM), Raikes Foundation, Overdeck Family Foundation, Wallace Foundation, and William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, funded the Harvard Graduate School of Education for the creation of “Explore SEL” which is a project of the Ecological Approaches to Social Emotional Learning (EASEL) Laboratory that was launched October 22, 2019.

Essentially, under the “Taxonomy Project” to establish precision in the field of SEL, they created a data collection and coding system of documents to build frameworks consisting of skills, terms, and definitions. They were building an “evidence-based system for organizing, describing, and connecting frameworks and skills across the non-academic domain” which is precisely what WEF was calling for in order to push policymakers forward with their agenda.

They have 35 frameworks in their database, 26 of which are being utilized internationally. The director, Stephanie M. Jones, along with all members of the WEF, like to refer to these programs as “SEL interventions.” Jones is also a member of the Council of Distinguished Scientists for The Aspen Institute’s NCSEAD.

Favorite buzzwords used throughout this project are diversity, equity, inclusion, identity, resilience, race, adaptability, values, and awareness of bias and privilege for all. Some of the targeted SEL skills consist of cognitive regulation, self-management, belonging, responsible decision making, social skills, employability skills, and identity. Each framework focuses on different areas of obedience training. The “Big Five Personality” framework terminology consists of conscientiousness, openness to experience, neuroticism / emotional stability, extraversion, and agreeableness.

Zuckerberg is sprinkled throughout this entire report because he not only co-funded ventures into the SEL agenda, but has funded scientific brain and app related areas that tie directly in with this agenda, as covered in part 3.

On October 30, 2018, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative announced an investment of $3.3 million to CASEL to advance the SEL program, GripTape, Peer Health Exchange, and Roses in Concrete Community School.

On February 7, 2019, they announced a $1.6 million grant to Valor Collegiate Academies based in Nashville, TN to expand the SEL program through the student development model “Compass” to reach students across district-run and public charter schools nationwide, using “Compass Camps.” Coincidentally, the Carnegie Corporation funded Valor $1.5 million in 2017 to take this model from middle schools to high school so it could expand from there, so Zuckerberg is footing the bill for that further expansion to take it nationwide. Then, Carnegie stepped back in to foot the 2020 bill, after Valor achieved training 52 school partners, serving over 18,000 students around the country. The new funding of $700,000 was to add college and career programming into the high school model, with 2021 marking the first class of senior graduates.

On October 14, 2019, they granted $400,000 to The School Superintendents Association (AASA) to advance the SEL program. Also in 2019, they granted $245,000 to America’s Promise Alliance to launch campaign to fuel the movement on social and emotional well-being, and granted CASEL another $1.5 million to ensure SEL program reflects the latest scientific findings and principles, and to inform a suite of resources for practitioners nationwide.

In 2020, they granted $200,000 to AASA to deepen SEL work in six public school districts.

That’s nearly $6 million specifically toward the SEL agenda in just three years time, which doesn’t include other education grants that could technically advance this agenda overall.

On August 29, 2019, the Carnegie Corporation published an article on ‘Social-Emotional Learning: Helping Teens Navigate All of the Things.’ They talk about how critical it is to have SEL in schools, and mention how the Aspen Institute’s NCSEAD was produced with their support ($600,000). But perhaps one of the biggest takeaways from this article is the statement about brain development in adolescence.

As previously mentioned in the WEF white papers, researchers at the Carnegie Mellon University’s ArticuLab are developing interactive learning environments to show how artificial intelligence and multimodal social computing could improve cognitive, social and emotional skills.

How deep does Carnegie’s wallet go into the SEL agenda? Between 2016 – 2021, the Carnegie Corporation doled out over $11 million in grants to 10 different organizations specifically marked for SEL, all of which are listed in the list of names on the “Recap List” in part 9 of this report.

They funded the “Education Testing Service” $750,000 in 2017, and another $925,000 in 2019. These funds went to the Institute for Student Achievement (ISA), which has a national network of over 70 new and turnaround schools, 4,000 educators, and 80,000 students, after completing a pilot project that created a teacher toolkit for developing students’ non-cognitive strategies by embedding SEL within academic classes, to expand the pilot to more schools. In 2019 the funds were to continue to expand SEL into schools, build partnerships, share resources with a broad set of stakeholders, and to inform SEL-related policies in partnership with a national policy organization.

The Wallace Foundation has ambitious goals. In 2016 they set out to affect nine urban school districts in Boston, MA; Dallas, TX; Denver, CO; Palm Beach County, FL; Tacoma, WA; and Tulsa, OK, by establishing a six-year initiative to align and improve SEL practices in school and out-of-school settings, with the help of CASEL, the Forum for Youth Investment, the David P. Weikart Center for Youth Program Quality, Crosby Marketing Communications, and others. Over the six-year period, 30,000 K-6th grade children in 76 schools will receive SEL obedience training.

Each district and out-of-school time intermediary pair received a shared grant between $1 million to $1.5 million. The local communities get “inclusion in a professional learning community” and regular meetings with other cities that are also involved with the initiative. As part of the overall initiative, they’ve been collecting data to improve systems.

Their hope was to gather (or create) evidence to show how SEL benefits students, which is being carried out by the Rand Corporation who will produce public reports for policymakers and practitioners. Then, low and behold, in July 2021, they commissioned Stephanie Jones of Harvard to produce a guide to 25 evidenced-based SEL programs.

Interestingly, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation comes in at just under $9 million in funding to SEL programs, but they got a much earlier start than the others. Their first round of funding went to Ashoka in the amount of $34,482 back in February 2012 for a competition for three U.S.-based solutions to advance SEL. They were scanning the field. Just two months later, they setup a $1.5 million grant to George Washington University to collaborate with CASEL to use eight large school districts as a “learning laboratory for the field,” and to develop a road map on state and federal revenue streams and regulatory opportunities and barriers. The following month, they funded CASEL $496,202 to partner with the Center for Health and Health Care in Schools, a George Washington University Center, to build field capacity for implementation of SEL programs.

The following year, in 2013, they began funding the Pennsylvania State University College of Health and Human Development, just shy of $200,000, to begin establishing and documenting SEL programs’ impact on outcomes children will manifest later in life and statistical models that examine the return on investment. Also in 2013, they funded the New Teacher Center $1.6 million to scale up its curricula to embed more SEL content into it, among other things.

There was a four-year pause before their next round of funding toward advancing SEL programs. Then, between 2016-2021 they put an additional $4.7 million into CASEL, the National Association of State Boards of Education, Pennsylvania State University, and WestEd, all with a strong emphasis on policy implementation at a state level, and getting SEL into schools across the country.

In 2017, they made a key play. They partnered with the National Association of State Boards of Education (NASBE), with a $500,000 grant that bought them a direct link to NASBE’s network of school boards to help states promote SEL through the “fifth indicator” of the Every Student Succeeds Act and insert SEL into educational practices via policy implementation. They also assisted with message implementation to address the mindsets of education stakeholders, “most specifically parents.”

In January 2022, Paolo DeMaria, former Superintendent of Public Instruction for Ohio state, became the new president of NASBE. Where does DeMaria stand on SEL? In June 2019, he penned a 1-1/4 page letter to all Ohio parents, families, caregivers, educators, and community partners with excitement about Ohio’s new Social and Emotional Learning Standards for students K-12 that they “carefully crafted over a 10-month period by Ohio educators, counselors, and social-emotional learning experts to develop the whole child.” In this very short letter, he used the phrase “social-emotional learning” eleven times. DeMaria stated each district and school will decide for itself the extent to which it uses these standards and how it uses them, and provided a link to the Department’s website for more information, which has a direct link to CASEL.

Professor Heckman’s Center for The Economics of Human Development at The University of Chicago, made sure to point out that the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation featured their early childhood research.

It’s clear, after reviewing some of the funding from bigger players behind this agenda, that there is no shortage of predators. What doesn’t seem to be clear to a large number of people in the U.S., is that the same globalists funding this psychological obedience training for lifelong learning, while preying on children, are quite literally funding every other major agenda that is being used to “reimagine” and “reshape” our lives as they incrementally remove freedoms by the week.

This report was sponsored by The Solari Report.

Previous Chapters:

 Part 1: Introduction

 Part 2: The Programming

 Part 3: Spirituality in Education Programming

 Part 4: WEF Vision for Global Education System

 Part 5: U.S. Department of Education & Multiple Agencies Involved

Subsequent Chapters:

 Part 7: Billions in State & Federal Funding, and Legislation

 Part 8: Surveillance, Data Mining, and Social Score for All

 Part 9: Timeline, Recap List of Over 300 Organizations Involved, and Conclusion

Article posted with permission from Corey Lynn, originally published at CoreysDigs.com