You may have noticed that our nation is crumbling. In this case, I am not actually referring to the moral decay which is eating away at the foundations of our society like cancer. In this article I am going to specifically focus on the physical infrastructure which is literally crumbling directly under our feet. At one time, the infrastructure in the United States was unrivaled anywhere in the world. Previous generations of Americans built this country from the ground up, and I am very thankful for the hard work that they put into constructing our infrastructure, but now it is rotting and decaying all around us.

Our politicians in Washington finally decided to take action by passing the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

Unfortunately, most of that money is not actually going to spent on infrastructure. According to Newsweek, only 44 percent of the money in the bill is going to be spent on infrastructure even if you use the broadest definition of “infrastructure” possible.

So we were bamboozled.

But at least some money is going to be spent on infrastructure, and that is a good thing because roads and bridges are literally collapsing all around us.

In fact, the Forbes Avenue bridge in Pittsburgh collapsed on Friday just hours before Joe Biden visited the city…

Biden claims that we are “going to fix them all”, but he is not telling us the truth.

It is being reported that there is 27.5 billion dollars in the infrastructure bill that is allocated for the construction and repair of bridges…

Unfortunately, the Federal Highway Administration is telling us that it would take approximately 125 billion dollars to fix or replace America’s deficient bridges…

So why was such little money allocated to our bridges in the infrastructure bill?

Someone should ask that question to Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer.

Because if we are going to spend 1.2 trillion dollars that we do not have, we should at least be able to fix our roads and bridges.

According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, there are almost 44,000 bridges in the United States that are currently in “poor condition”…

Our roads are in horrendous shape as well. At this point, hundreds of thousands of miles of roads in our country are in poor condition. Texas and California are the two states that lead the pack…

So far in this article, I have only talked about roads and bridges, but we are facing many other challenges as well.

Our power grid was never designed to handle so many people, and we all saw the epic disaster that played out in Texas last winter.

The lack of investment in our ports is one of the factors which has precipitated the most severe supply chain crisis that the U.S. has ever experienced.

When it comes to mass transit, we are falling way, way behind China and other major industrialized nations.

Our natural gas lines are in such poor shape that explosive “accidents” have become a regular occurrence.

Our water systems and our sewer systems desperately need some attention. In Sacramento, California the water coming out of the taps often tastes like dirt at this point.

Needless to say, our railroads are severely outdated and could really use some investment as well.

And please don’t get me started on our airports. Compared to airports in Asia, Europe and the Middle East, many of our airports are a bad joke.

If all of the money in the “infrastructure bill” was going to be spent to address these needs, a lot of good could be done.

But instead, hundreds of billions of dollars will be going to social causes favored by Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer and Joe Biden.

So our infrastructure will continue to crumble, and that is extremely unfortunate.