The New York Times seems to be finally taking allegations of Biden family corruption seriously. It is suing the U.S. State Department for emails related to Hunter Biden. The investigation is to determine potential foreign influence on now-President Biden.

“The New York Times has sued the State Department for allegedly dragging its feet in handing over emails from Romanian embassy officials connected to Hunter Biden and his famed former business associate Tony Bobulinski,” the Daily Mail reported on Tuesday.

“The lawsuit, filed Monday in Manhattan federal court, seeks emails dating 2015 to 2019,” the article states. “The Times alleges that the State Department is failing to address its Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request in a timely manner. When the Times asked when the State Dept. would get around to the request, the paper was told to expect an answer on April 15, 2023, according to Politico.”

“The Times appears to be looking into whether embassy personnel did any special favors on behalf of business officials, including the president’s son and Bobulinski. Joe Biden was serving as vice president for two of the years the emails cover, 2015-2016,” the article added.

The lawsuit comes long after a New York Post exclusive in fall 2020 blew open the Hunter Biden laptop story and ostensible Biden foreign corruption involving primarily a Ukrainian gas giant called Burisma and Chinese oligarchs close to the Chinese Communist Party.

The New York Times acted with several other mainstream media outlets to quell concerns about Biden’s ties to foreign interests during the 2020 campaign, despite its breathless coverage over debunked Trump collusion with the Russian government during the 2016 campaign. As National Review pointed out:

Curiously, though, the Times describes the Post‘s story as “unsubstantiated” without doing any of the work required to actually discredit it. Indeed, the “unsubstantiated” descriptor is tacked on without any supporting evidence suggesting that the Post‘s reporting was erroneous. No such evidence is referenced in the Times‘ reporting, nor in anyone else’s, though “Russian misinformation” was a common refrain from Democrats’ last October.

Big Tech suppressed the New York Post’s Hunter Biden laptop stories that blew the lid off the story. When censorship wasn’t enough to quiet concerns, media outlets and even intel agencies wrongly dismissed the report as bearing the hallmark signs of “Russian disinformation.” However, Politico would later concede that the Hunter Biden laptop is authentic.

Since the election, the New York Post’s reporting, as well as more disturbing reports about Biden family ties to foreign governments have arisen. The White House has dismissed these concerns, as have federal investigators presumably tasked with investigating it.

In December, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki was asked about the Biden family’s alleged ties to the Communist Chinese.

“Thanks, Jen. The Biden administration today put out a big report addressing corruption. I wanted to ask you two quick and hopefully pretty easy questions about that,” the reporter began.

“Shortly after President Biden’s virtual meeting with the Chinese president, the First Son’s attorney said that he has finally divested from a Chinese investment fund controlled by state-owned entities,” the reporter continued. “I was hoping you could commit to basic transparency about that transaction, including the name of the buyer, the dollar amount, and the timing.”

“And the second question is my colleague, Miranda Devine, has a new book out called ‘The Laptop from Hell,’ and I was hoping that you could confirm that the laptop is indeed authentic and not Russian disinformation as you seemed to suggest on Twitter last year?” the reporter continued.

“Well, on the first, the President’s son is not an employee of the federal government, so I’d point you to his representatives. And as it relates the book, I have neither had the time nor interest in exploring or reading the book. Go ahead, Tina,” Psaki said.

The U.S. attorney working on the Hunter Biden case, a prosecutor known for taking on powerful Delaware political figures, also made moves to ensure case developments stayed out of the 2020 president election campaign cycle.

David Weiss, a veteran U.S. attorney, “kept his investigation into Biden’s son out of the 2020 campaign,” according to an earlier report by Politico.

Federal officials advising the prosecutor Weiss told him to “avoid taking any actions that could alert the public to the existence of the case in the middle of a presidential election,” the report noted.

As reported by the New York Times, the Federal Election Commission cleared Twitter of violating election laws by censoring a New York Post story about Hunter Biden’s laptop.

The FEC decided that Twitter’s suppression of the story was “undertaken for a valid commercial reason, not a political purpose” and “followed existing policies related to hacked materials.”

However, not only were the Hunter Biden files not “hacked” (they were on the laptop that he left at a Delaware repair shop), Twitter took no similar action numerous other times there was hacked information on its platform, presumably because the story damaged Donald Trump.

The Daily Mail has authenticated that the “103,000 text messages, 154,000 emails, more than 2,000 photos and dozens of videos” belong to the president’s son. The laptop is “brimming with evidence of apparent criminal activity by Hunter and his associates including drug trafficking and prostitution,” the Daily Mail reports.

As the Wall Street Journal recently noted, the Hunter Biden story is not really about Hunter Biden. It is about Joe Biden. The news media knew that before the 2020 election: That is precisely why they buried the story.

The New York Times’ lawsuit doesn’t change that damning track record. Since it is now clear that the mainstream media committed journalistic malpractice and rendered a disservice to the American people, it is now seeking to cover its tracks. If the Times does get the Hunter Biden emails, it will most certainly be to tell the public “nothing to see here.”

Syndicated with licensed permission from Becker News. Follow Becker News on Telegram.

As seen on Becker News. Follow Kyle Becker on Twitter, Telegram, Instagram, Facebook, Gab or Parler.