The Biden presidency can’t really sink much lower in the court of public opinion. So, it appears that even the most unpopular positions that would render a president dead-in-the-water with the American people during national elections are on the table for the desperate Democrats.

On Tuesday, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki hinting that “President” Biden is considering packing the court with radical left-wing justices.

“Does the president plan to decide what he is going to do on Supreme Court reform before he makes this nomination?” a reporter asked.

“He is reviewing the Supreme Court commission report. I don’t have a prediction of when he will conclude his analysis of that,” Psaki replied.

“And I just asked because the reports includes suggestions about things like changing the number of people on the court and you would think he would want to know who, if he’s going to increase the size of the court who he will put on first, right?” the reporter followed up.

“I think the focus right now is on going through a process that takes — that values the seriousness of the role he has as president where he consults as you saw today with Democrats and Republicans to select and dominate an eminently qualified black woman to serve on the court,” she said. “That is the focus right now.”

In July, the Supreme Court handed down two opinions that struck serious blows to the Democrats’ agenda. One ruling struck down a California law that non-profit groups must disclose funders to authorities and another defeated the effort to prevent election integrity laws from being implemented in Arizona and other states.

The Democratic Party responded to the defeats as one might predict: With renewed calls to pack the courts, as well as a push for moderate Justice Stephen Breyer to retire so a more radical judge can be appointed. That mission has been accomplished.

“Today’s ruling is another blow to voting rights,” Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts responded in July. “We have no time to waste to protect the right to vote. We must abolish the filibuster and pass the For the People Act and John Lewis Voting Rights Act. And we must expand the Supreme Court.”

“And still some people have the nerve to question whether Court expansion is necessary,” Rep. Mondaire Jones added.

In April, the Democrats actually introduced a bill to expand the Supreme Court, after Biden formed a commission to ‘study’ reforming the court. The Supreme Court would hypothetically gain four new seats, but the filibuster still stands in the Democrats’ way.

The Supreme Court reform commission, however, appeared to be tepid on the idea of court-packing, according to a Hill report in July.

“An effort by progressives to expand the Supreme Court is starting to fizzle as a presidential commission tasked with reviewing the controversial proposal saps earlier momentum,” the Hill reported.

“The stalled progress isn’t exactly unwelcome to Democratic leaders in Washington who are happy to avoid a fight over court expansion, which could end up being a political liability for moderate Democratic candidates in next year’s midterm elections,” the report went on.

“Congressional Democrats would prefer to stay focused on President Biden’s infrastructure agenda and conserve their political capital for a potential Supreme Court confirmation fight if Justice Stephen Breyer announces his retirement this week.”

That announcement would come in January 2022. But the Democratic Party’s agenda presses on, even into a midterm election year where the party faces significant headwinds. The Democrats see their window of opportunity closing and it only makes sense they would seek to institutionalize and entrench and radical mechanisms they deem possible.

Syndicated with licensed permission from Becker News. Follow Becker News on Telegram.

As seen on Becker News. Follow Kyle Becker on Twitter, Telegram, Instagram, Facebook, Gab or Parler.