Political polling is an ever-changing science as those interviewing the respondees have to continue to figure out new ways to reach the young generations who have departed from using home phones and emails.

In addition, determining who to question, which depends on the market-specific variables in the target groups, is crucial. One of the most accurate pollsters of the last 20 years released a shocking poll on Monday.

A new national telephone and online survey by Rasmussen Reports and The National Pulse finds that 50% of Likely U.S. voters support the impeachment of Biden, including 33% who Strongly Support it. Forty-five percent (45%) are opposed to impeaching Biden, including 33% who Strongly Oppose it. This includes 50 percent of black voters who want to see Biden impeached.

“Half of voters believe President Joe Biden should be impeached, and nearly as many think Republicans will do it if they win a congressional majority in the midterm elections,” says Rasmussen Reports.

What is also very revealing, and explains why the far left in the democratic party is starting to look for someone to replace Biden in the 24 elections, is the fact that thirty-four (34 percent) of Democrats actually support impeaching Biden.

The internals here are fascinating…. When these same respondents were asked if impeaching former President Trump twice was a “good thing” or “bad thing,” only 36 percent said it was a “good thing,” while 47 percent said it was a “bad thing.” What’s more, only 56 percent of Democrats and 42 percent of black voters believe it was a “good thing” to impeach Trump.

When asked if the GOP will go through with impeachment if they recapture the House in the 2022 midterms, 45 percent believe it’s likely, while 42 percent say otherwise.

With the billions of dollars spent to get Biden elected, and even with the mainstream media backing sleepy Joe, Biden’s poor performance just can’t be hidden for an increasing amount of the U.S. population.

If the GOP does take back both chambers of the U.S. Congress in November 2022, as expected by most pundits, the calls for them to impeach President Biden and Vice-President Harris will be blowing up their individual congressional lines around the clock.

If they do, it will keep both politicians distracted during the process, possibly preventing them from doing much additional damage to our Constitutional Republic.

Additionally, it will show the left that the GOP can do the impeachment dance too. This is important as Speaker Pelosi and Lead Schumer arrogantly tried to impeach former President Trump, twice, without any real evidence to justify their attempts.

To me, Biden and Haris deserve to be removed. They both have not only openly violated the Constitution but also ignored border security, breaking immigration laws.

The question is will the American people, especially the normal democratic voters such as independents and back voters, turn out and give Biden, Harris, and other liberal politicians, the boot, over the next 3 years.