The activity of The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Fauci’s operated National Institute of Allergy and Infection Diseases (NIAID) is disturbing to millions of Americans.

The National Institutes of Health (NIH), a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nation’s medical research agency — making important discoveries that improve health and save lives.

NIAID conducts and supports basic and applied research to better understand, treat, and ultimately prevent infectious, immunologic, and allergic diseases.

Not only did Dr. Anthony Fauci fund “gain of function” research for COVID, but has also funded absurd “research”, such as trying to make male Monkeys transgender, etc.

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has been paying gay and transgender boys as young as 13 hundreds of dollars to record their sexual activity on a mobile app without parental permission.

NIH-funded researchers at Columbia University offer up to $275 to gay and transgender boys, between the ages of 13 and 18, to document their sexual activity on MyPEEPS Mobile, including whether they have “condomless anal sex.”

The NIH spent more than $300,000 to develop the app in 2012 and 2013, and $7.9 million since 2016 for Columbia researchers to study the data it collects, according to a government spending database.

The app for “young men who have sex with men” provides “interactive games and activities” designed to teach participating teenagers how to minimize risk in their sex lives, according to the research grant and resulting study.

The NIH website says the app it aimed toward “young men who have sex with men” to track the transmission of HIV/AIDS. “The ubiquitous nature of mobile phones in daily life, especially among 13-18-year-olds, has created opportunities for health interventions in a portable format with enhanced privacy,” it says.

This year, the MyPEEPS study has received more federal funding –$340,000 — to focus on transgender teenagers.

According to the 2020 study published based on collected data, the app is was “designed to be specific to the risk contexts and realities of young sexual minority men, and to include psychoeducational and skill-building components with interactive games and activities.”

According to the Free Beacon, some health experts have ethics concerns considering that the young participants were “recruited” without parental permission.

Speaking with the outlet, former deputy assistant administrator in the Bureau for Global Health at the U.S. Agency for International Development Dr. Monique Wubbenhorst said, “There is an ethical balance between investigators’ desire to enroll children in a study and the need to support parents in caring for their children.”

“There are additional concerns that minor children in this study may be engaged in sexually exploitative relationships with older males, sex trafficking/child prostitution, violence, and sexual abuse, from which they should be protected,” she continued.

The study’s project leader, Dr. Rebecca Schnall, said the researchers were able to obtain a parental permission waiver required by the Department of Health and Human Services before conducting studies on minor subjects. “If parental permission were sought, then our study participants may not be willing to participate in this study because they will fear their parents’ knowledge of their sexuality and sexual activities,” she said.

Bioethics fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy center Dr. Aaron Rothstein told the outlet that he is surprised by the waiver given that the minor subjects were both paid and provided transportation to meetings without parental consent.

This perverted study is a symptom of the disease of sexual perversion.

For those who reject God, and support open sexual activity with anyone, as seen in the trans and homosexual communities, those like Dr. Fauci and peers pay youth under 18 to record the strange sex they have with typically adult men over 18.

Instead of using their millions to promote the benefits of abstinence, instead, recruit and document the fallout from these youth’s destructive lifestyles.

Sad is all I can say.