Can Slow Joe and his team of not-so-talented, not-so-smart, and certainly not-so-moderate political hacks find a way to push through their far-left Build Back Better bill now that the idea of killing the filibuster is dead and buried?

According to Joe Manchin, the man they need to seal the deal and push the radical spending plan through Congres, no. No, they can’t.

He said as much when speaking to CNN reporter Manu Raju, saying “What Build Back Better bill? I don’t know what you guys are talking about. No, no, no, no. It’s dead.”

Raju promptly took to Twitter to report Manchin’s comments, providing the tale of the West Virginia Democrat driving a nail in the coffin of Brandon’s big government dreams:

That comment is a major blow to Democrats, the Brandon Administration in particular. After the utter failure of the nuking the filibuster effort, a plan that blew up in the faces of Schumer and his gang of fools when Manchin and Sinema did exactly what they had said they would do and declined to vote for it.

Since then, Brandon and the other Democrats who had hitched their hopes to the Build Back Better plan have been scurrying about, trying to find a workaround for Manchin’s intransigence.

Most recently, that took the form of them suggesting splitting the bill into parts and holding a vote on the individual pieces. As the Washington Post reported:

House Democrats running for reelection in competitive districts, facing increasingly long odds of surviving a potential Republican wave, have confronted party leaders in recent days with demands for a new midterm strategy.

Among the requests of these so-called “front-liner” Democrats is to break up President Biden’s sprawling Build Back Better spending bill that has stalled in the Senate amid opposition from Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) and hold votes on a series of politically popular provisions that would appeal to centrist voters and core Democrats alike.

These members have argued to top House leaders in recent days — so far, to no avail — that holding votes on narrow measures such as curbing prescription drug costs and extending the child tax credit would help Democrats make a case that they can improve voters’ lives economically despite soaring inflation and other issues that have dragged down Biden’s approval ratings.

Brandon himself tossed his support behind that idea, saying “It’s clear to me that we’re going to have to probably break it up. I’m confident we can get pieces, big chunks of the Build Back Better [Act] signed into law.”

Unfortunately for him, confident as he might have been that the Democrats could somehow slip through pieces of the bill, Manchin isn’t planning on letting that happen.

As he told Raju, “it’s dead.” Though it shouldn’t surprise the Democrats, as he’s already said many times that he wouldn’t support the massive spending package at a time when inflation is already out of control, they’ll probably pretend it was a “betrayal,” echoing their ridiculous, faux pearl-clutching from the last time Manchin did exactly what he said he would and didn’t vote to nuke the filibuster.

In any case, we all have Manchin to thank for halting this massive, hulking government spending package.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.