Or will it be another one they have Weaponized at the ready?

Back in 1999 they dug up Bodies in Alaska to get the Spanish Flu. Has it been Weaponized? Six unearthed bodies yield clues to 1918 Spanish influenza outbreak; Frozen corpses found in Norwegian Arctic help scientists study virus

The China Virus, Covid19, was a trial run…, a dress rehearsal for the mass murderers! It did not kill and maim as many as they had hoped for.

So now they are signaling what they are going to do next!

The elite’s do tell us through their books and publications, movies and news releases what they are doing – this is called Revelation of the Method. If you are too stupid to recognize it for what it is that is your problem from their point of view. It is a form of ritual mocking of the victim.

The ‘Angel Of Death’ Has Been Unleashed – US Govt Bought Over $110 Million In Smallpox Drugs Just Prior To Bill Gates Warning Of Smallpox Bio-Weapon And Vials Found At Philly Lab

We’re On The Fast Track To Genocide

Stefan Stanford | All News Pipeline – An interesting story over at Yahoo News on Tuesday that many people might just casually glance over before moving on to other stories caught my eye simply because of another story I had read days before the Yahoo story, as well as another story I remember reading several months before both of those.

With the Yahoo story reporting the FBI is now investigating vials labeled ‘smallpox’ that were recently found in a freezer at a Merck facility outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, just back on November 4th, vials that weren’t supposed to be there, the Daily Mail reported none other than Bill Gates recently warned ‘terrorists’ will try and use smallpox as a biological weapon as he was putting in a plea for billions in dollars of more funding to ‘prevent future pandemics’.

And just as Bill Gates and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation actually hosted ‘Event 201′, a pandemic preparedness ‘exercise’ back in October of 2019, right before COVID ‘went viral’, Gates now warning of ‘terrorists‘ using smallpox to terrorize us gives us a hint of something diabolical ahead considering the other stories that were recently published.

Because while smallpox was supposedly eradicated back in 1980, another story from Yahoo from back in September of 2021 reported the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services had just arranged for the delivery of $112.5 million worth of a drug called TPOXX, a medication used to do what? Well, treat smallpox of course.

So while there is a chance that these three stories that might seem unrelated actually are ‘unrelated’ to each other after-all, there’s also the chance that the three stories are sewn together like a perfectly stitched ‘conspiracy’, one used to further crack down upon the free people of the planet. So we should definitely watch out for more smallpox stories in the days ahead.

We’ll be taking a more detailed look at each of those three stories in the next 2 sections of this story below before looking ahead at what we still believe is the ‘big picture‘ that the globalists don’t want us to see, the complete depopulation of the planet Earth being forced upon us with the globalists using one bioweapon after another upon ‘the masses‘, putting us on a fast-track crash course towards depopulation as forecast by the Deagel Report and actually called for on the Georgia Guide Stones. Read the rest here …