Brandon’s border policies have been an utter disaster. Thanks to his soft on crime, soft on illegal immigration policies, policies that many in the “global south” have taken as an invitation to run across the border at their pleasure, we’ve experienced a multi-million person invasion.

That invasion has overrun border communities, placed a strain on local law enforcement and Border Patrol, and been an utter disaster for those that want to keep drugs, human trafficking, and the other wages of cartel activity out of America.

Well, Arizona’s AG, Mark Brnovich, has had enough. He appeared on Fox News to rip into Team Brandon for all it has done to open the border to illegals and cartels, blasting the deleterious nature of all Biden has done.

To begin, Brnovich highlighted the proactive step he is taking to deal with the crisis, a lawsuit filed in conjunction with seven other states:

“Well, on numerous levels, Arthel. Thank you for having me on. We actually have multiple pieces of litigation against the Biden administration. They stopped building the border wall. They stopped enforcing deportation of people, deportation orders, a violation of Title 8 of the U.S. Code.

And we have a lawsuit right now at the U.S. Supreme Court that I will be arguing in February where the Biden Administration has essentially provided incentives including government benefits for people that have entered the country illegally.”

He then began to transition away from what he’s doing and toward what Biden has done, highlighting how Biden inherited everything he needed to make America a success, but instead reversed all of Trump’s policies and created a disaster, especially on the border:

“So basically, the Biden administration inherited a strong economy, energy independence, a secure border, and in less than a year they’ve essentially gifted the American people with rising inflation, record energy prices, and gas prices, and now the cartels have seized control of our border.”

He finally turned to what Biden’s “come to America” rhetoric and soft on illegal immigration policies have done to border states like Arizona, saying:

“If you talk to Border Patrol agents, you look at the numbers, a record amount of people illegally crossing, they have never seen got-aways, these are people that aren’t being recorded, that are evading detection.

We know in Arizona, more than 9 million illegal or counterfeit fentanyl pills were just seized last year alone. Our office was involved with the bust with Scottsdale P.D. and DEA.

There was enough fentanyl powder and pills, more than 6 million pills in one bust just two weeks ago. And that fentanyl, those are drugs that two milligrams can be deadly. And that’s not staying here in Arizona, it’s not staying in Texas. It will affect all of our communities.”

Brnovich is right to call out Brandon; America needs a safe and secure border. Instead, it has a porous one over which flow contraband and trafficked humans. Rather than exerting sovereign control over American territory, Brandon has handed control of it to the cartels.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.