On Monday, Democratic Senator and Majority Whip Dick Durbin said that President Joe Biden’s decision to only select a woman of color for the Supreme Court has been much “more controversial” than what was expected.

Durbin will preside over the first committee hearings for Biden’s Supreme Court pick.

“Asked if he thinks it’s gonna be harder for GOPers to criticize/oppose a Black woman for SCOTUS, Durbin notes some of Biden’s other court picks have been ‘more controversial than I anticipated,’” Bendery said in a tweet on Monday evening. “Me: ‘Is there a theme to them?’ Durbin: ‘Assertive women of color.’”

“Biden is hosting Sens. Dick Durbin and Chuck Grassley — the top Dem and GOPer on the Judiciary Committee — at the White House tomorrow to talk about filling Breyer’s SCOTUS seat, says @PressSec,” Bendery added.

Check out what the Daily Wire reported:

While a number of possible choices to replace Breyer have been floated, Biden has made it clear that he intends to follow through on his campaign promise to nominate the first black woman to the Supreme Court — a promise that has sparked reactions on both sides of the aisle.

Critics have suggested that by limiting the field of potential nominees to one specific race and one specific gender, Biden has made the selection process both sexist and racist.

The Federalist’s Mollie Hemingway explained: “President Biden pledging to be both racist and sexist, and discriminating against people who aren’t the preferred sex and race — something that, if any of the rest of us did that in our hiring decisions, would be not allowed. And yet he openly pledged it. I think people should strongly speak against such sexism and racism.”

“The View” host Sunny Hostin argued that it was very important for Biden to follow through on the promise he made, arguing that it could shore up support from African American women voters.

“Meet the Press” moderator Chuck Todd explained that a battle over Biden’s eventual pick could reinvigorate voters who had lost their enthusiasm — and getting his pick confirmed would be a political win that could take some of the sting out of recent legislative losses.

What are your thoughts? Let us know in the comments below!