What does an America that’s tens of trillions of dollars in debt, a nation that’s running trillion-dollar a year deficits, need to do right now?

If your answer wasn’t “spend billions of dollars on restricting the rights of ordinary Americans,” then, well, that just means you and Crazy Chuck Schumer aren’t on the same page. Turns out, that’s exactly what the beady-eyed New Yorker wants to do.

In fact, Schumer called on Congress to spend 1.5 billion taxpayer dollars on funding New York’s new anti-gun task force, a task force that he claims will help combat “the scourge of gun violence.” In reality, it will help combat the “scourge” of freedom.

Schumer pushed for taxpayer funding of that task force when giving a press conference in Manhattan. During that press conference, he praised the task force, New York Gov. Kathy Hochul’s new “Interstate Task Force on Illegal Guns,” and said:

“I am pushing for $1.5 billion dollars in federal funds for the agency, so they can help with this work and do much more at the national level. Without the $1.5 billion … these plans will not have their full impact, and we need full impact to address the flow of these crime guns in our communities and across our state.”

Additionally, commenting on the federal role in fighting the “scourge of gun violence,” Chuck praised the much-derided ATF, the organization involved in the infamous Waco, Texas massacre, and said, “The ABCs of beating back the scourge of gun violence depends on three federal letters: A, T and F.”

President Brandon will also head to New York to discuss gun violence, with Mayor Eric Adams saying:

“I look forward to welcoming President Biden to New York City next week and sitting down to discuss how we can work collaboratively to end the scourge of gun violence we are seeing on New York City streets. The sea of violence comes from many rivers, and that’s why my Blueprint to End Gun Violence in New York City seeks to dam every river that feeds this greater crisis. Public safety is my administration’s highest priority, and we welcome the opportunity to display to President Biden how federal and local governments can coordinate and support each other in this fight to keep New Yorkers safe.”

With the recent anti-cop violence in New York, it makes sense that those from the city, and indeed the country, would want to crack down on violent crime.

Problem is, that’s not what Schumer and Co. are doing here. As you’ll notice the statements are all about guns and gun violence, not the thugs pulling the triggers.

They want to use federal funds to disarm New Yorkers, not to develop an actually effective anti-crime force that would bring back successful policies like stop and frisk, locking up thugs and throwing away the key, and tough on crime, tough on criminal policies.

Were the goal actually to keep violence at bay, Schumer and his ilk would go after the criminals that have been shooting cops and preying on their fellow citizens. But that’s not what they’re doing. No, they’re coming after guns.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.