It is still unknown how much fraud was carried out in the 2020 election. But the narrative needs to end that the answer is “none.”

Despite the widespread blanket denials from the mainstream media, surveillance video has bubbled up showing that ‘mules’ illicitly dumped ballots into Zuckerberg “drop boxes.”

The film contains startling video evidence of “2,000 mules” dropping off what appears to be thousands of illicit ballots into the drop boxes. The details of how the evidence was gathered is recounted by researcher Kanekoa on his Substack page.

“This week surveillance footage emerged of an illegal ballot harvesting operation that took place during the 2020 election,” the article notes. “True The Vote has spent the last year collecting more than 27 terabytes of geospatial and temporal data—a total of 10 trillion cell phone pings—between Oct. 1 and Nov. 6 in targeted areas in Georgia, Arizona, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Texas.”

“The data includes geofenced points of interest like ballot drop box locations, as well as UPS stores and select government, commercial, and non-governmental organization (NGO) facilities,” the article added.

“The vote monitoring organization based out of Houston, Texas, was able to take cell phone ping data and piece together that over 2,000 people—suspected ballot harvesters—were making multiple trips to multiple drop boxes,” it continues. “From there, True The Vote gathered 24 terabytes of surveillance video on ballot drop boxes to match the cell phone data.”

The findings are now being made public by acclaimed documentary filmmaker Dinesh D’Souza in the new film 2000 Mules. Watch the trailer below:

Several critical swing states in the 2020 election were given to Biden by razor-thin margins of mere thousands of votes. In Georgia, where Trump fell short by fewer than 12,000 votes, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger recently announced an investigation into plausible reports of coordinated voter fraud.

“According to interviews and documents reviewed by Just the News, Raffensperger’s office received a detailed complaint from conservative voter integrity group True the Vote on Nov. 30 saying it had assembled evidence that scores of activists worked with nonprofit groups to collect and deliver thousands of absentee ballots, often during wee-hour operations, to temporary voting drop boxes distributed around the state during the pandemic,” the report said.

“The group informed the secretary its evidence included video footage from surveillance cameras placed by counties outside the drop boxes as well as geolocation data for the cell phones of more than 200 activists seen on the tapes purportedly showing the dates and times of ballot drop-offs,” according to documents reviewed by Just the News.

“The group also said it interviewed a Georgia man who admitted he was paid thousands of dollars to harvest ballots in the Atlanta metropolitan area during the November election and the lead-up to Jan. 5, 2021 runoff for Georgia’s two U.S. Senate seats, which were both captured by Democrats and ended GOP control of Congress,” the report added. “The group has yet to identify the cooperating witness to state authorities, referring to him in the complaint simply as John Doe.”

“The group does not allege the ballots delivered by couriers were fraudulent. Nonetheless, lawful ballots delivered by third-parties to drop boxes would run afoul of Georgia’s law,” the report added.

Donald Trump reacted to the release of the “2,000 mules” film trailer.

“Highly respected Dinesh D’Souza, working together with Catherine Engelbrecht of True the Vote, just released a trailer to their new movie, ‘2,000 Mules,’ that shows the world exactly how the 2020 Presidential Election was Rigged and Stolen,” Trump said. “The movie exposes the lies of the Democrats, RINOs, and Fake News who say it was the ‘most secure election in history.’ It was, perhaps, the least secure in history.”

“The ballot box was stuffed, and stuffed like never before—and it’s all on video,” he added. “Ballots were trafficked and sold in a massive operation in each Swing State. The evidence is so damning, what will the cowards who sat and did nothing about the stolen election say now? The way our votes were taken away is a disgrace to our Nation. It must be fixed.”

Syndicated with licensed permission from Becker News. Follow Becker News on Telegram.

As seen on Becker News. Follow Kyle Becker on Twitter, Telegram, Instagram, Facebook, Gab or Parler.