Breaker one-nine, this here’s the Rubber Duck. That first line would go over your head if you have never heard the song Convoy by CW McCall. As most of you know by now truckers in Canada have formed the world’s largest convoy that stretches out over 45 miles. The Candian truckers formed the convoy to protest against Canada’s Covid-19 vaccine mandates for truckers. Well not everybody is a fan of the freedom convoy, as always radical leftists are doing what they do best and that’s cause trouble. Videos have appeared on Twitter that show nails that have been spread across an interstate in Canada in an attempt to stop the freedom convoy.

In the video, a group of unidentified men is seen picking up scattered nails and screws across a Candian interstate. The man videotaping the incident was reportedly a trucker himself and stated that he wasn’t able to pass through with his rig due to the nails.

It’s common knowledge that a tire blowout of a tractor-trailer could be absolutely deadly. Luckily, these truckers were being proactive and were able to clear the nails off the highway.

Not everybody is wreaking havoc on the interstate though, thousands of Canadians have shown their support for the truckers while standing on the side of the interstate with Canadian flags and other anti-vaccine mandate signs being held. When the truckers themselves arrived in Ottawa the scene looked like one big party and the music was the sounds of 18-wheelers honking their air horns.

Here was the scene of Ottawa on Sunday:

The Freedom Convoy has even garnered a response from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau a man that many patriots of Canada consider a tyrant. In a public announcement after being silent for the majority of the protests Trudeau stated “there is no place in our country for threats, violence or hatred”. Instead of giving back the citizens of Canada their freedom, Trudeau literally accused the truckers of being racist.

Trudeau who has already received two Covid vaccine shots and a booster would later tweet out after truckers arrived in Ottawa, “This morning, I tested positive for COVID-19, I’m feeling fine — and I’ll continue to work remotely this week while following public health guidelines. Everyone, please get vaccinated and get boosted“. You would think he would stop the vaccine mandates after he himself even got Covid despite being fully vaccinated but it appears he loves holding on to his power and he’s not willing to let it go.

In response to Trudeau’s message, many truckers were not discouraged but rather they took the prime minister’s response as a reason to protest longer. Not all public officials are against the trucker’s but some members of Canada’s Parliament have stood in unity with truckers’ calls to get rid of the vaccine mandate. One of them is Conservative Parliament Member Pierre Poilievre:

It appears the convoy has already started to work; just look at the round of applause Poilievre received when he started to stand in solidarity with the truckers.