Brandon has a nasty habit of running away from the press. Despite the fact that most of them are sycophantic and there only to help the Democrats, he’s just too frightened or too senile (or perhaps both) to answer even the easy, softball questions lobbed his way. Hence why he keeps running away from the press.

He did so again on Monday immediately after speaking to the National Governors Association. After giving a speech, he was quickly and aggressively ushered away before any questions could be asked or answered.

As even CNN put it, questions were “not happening today,” and that’s despite Brandon asking if anyone had any questions. Watch him run away here:

Fox called him out for running away from questions too, saying “That was so awkward…clearly, the president did not know that when you say, ‘Can I take any questions?’ all the media in the room might have a few.”

Of course, it probably wouldn’t have mattered much if he had stayed. He would have either mumbled incoherently/ranted about some random story, as he tends to do when there’s no script, or read a bland, lie-filled statement, which is what happens if his few brain cells manage to stick to the teleprompter.

Reporting on the incident, the White House pool report says:

“Biden spoke for about 11 minutes, mostly reading off his notes but at the end extemporizing some responses to the openings from the governors. More to come on that in a second. He particularly spoke to Hutchinson on the governor’s calls to move to an endemic Covid posture and border security, Biden said schools should stay open and he believes we need to focus on why people leave their countries.

At 11:34 he said he was told to first take a question from Gov Cox and the wranglers started to usher us out. A very audible question was shouted from the press about when he would start meeting with Supreme Court candidates but Biden gave no discernible response. The room then chuckled, seemingly at the scene of the press question and Biden non-response. We did not hear the start of q&a as we left.”

Despite the probable futility of doing so, Brandon should have stayed and at least pretended to answer questions.

Right now, inflation is skyrocketing, the economy looks like it’s about to contract, his administration is seemingly stirring up war with Russia over Ukraine, and masses of illegal immigrants are rushing across the border.

With all that happening, with all those horrid things making the lives of ordinary Americans worse, Americans deserve to hear from their president about what’s going on and what he plans to do about it.

But that’s probably why he did his usual and just turned his back on the press, letting the guards usher him out as the press clamored to answer questions. Brandon has no plan; he doesn’t know how to fix all the crazy problems that he’s created. He has no answers to give.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.