COMPULSORY masks on planes could remain in place for years even as the Covid crisis wanes, experts have warned.

Most airlines currently require passengers to wear masks at all times in accordance with international guidelines.

But with different rules in place across the world, airlines are reluctant to drop the requirement.

They fear a situation where the coverings could be taken on and off depending on the mask mandates in the airspace of the nation a plane was flying in.

An airline source told The Times: “A bit like supermarkets, we’ll almost certainly keep the same policy until it is safe to move.

“For example, the rules in the US are very clear on masks. It would be ridiculous of us to ask passengers to put them on when we enter their airspace.”

Another added that although “hopes that one day we will have a world with no masks. . . they are going to be with us for a long time”.

Neil Sorahan, Ryanair’s chief financial officer, masks remain in the same way as rules on passengers removing liquids from hand luggage at security.

What began as emergency measures introduced in 2006 when police foiled a plot to blow up airliners using liquid explosives remains in force.

“Masks will be something that will be with us for a while longer to come,” he said.

“If that is the price we have to pay for the next few months, into summer — it’s a small price to pay.”

At the end of last year Katie Price walked off a flight from New York to Las Vegas after being told to put a mask on.

The reality star chose to get off the plane and get another flight when cabin crew warned her to pull her face covering up from around her chin to over her mouth.

And in September boxer Amir Khan complained that he was kicked off a flight after a row over a Covid face mask.

The former world champion, 34, was travelling from New York to Colorado Springs to start his training camp ahead of his next fight.

A number of flights have faced disruption after passengers refused to wear face masks on board.

Police were forced to board an easyJet flight in Jersey after an "aggressive" male passenger failed to wear his face covering.

Meanwhile, two drunk Brits were arrested in Spain after ignoring the pilot's demands to wear face masks.