When Playboy magazine was founded nearly 70 years ago, its images of women's bodies arrived in an era of sexual restraint. Playboy founder Hugh Hefner said he wanted to change the social-sexual values of his time, arguing the photos were emblematic of a sexual revolution, of women's sexual liberation and female empowerment. In A&E's new docuseries "Secrets of Playboy," the women who posed in the pages of the magazine express a more critical view of how their bodies were used and who their bodies benefitted.

"The fantasy of Playboy that he created did not allow for the consent of the women," said Miki Garcia, who appeared in Playboy as Miss January 1973.

The first issue of Playboy launched with a nude photo of Marilyn Monroe, though journalist George Barris reported in "Marilyn: Her Life in Her Own Words," that the photo was taken in 1948 when Monroe was broke and desperate for cash. Monroe was paid $50 by the photographer. Hefner later purchased the photo for $500 and used it in Playboy without Monroe's permission.

American culture today is more sexualized, some women have more social and economic power and the media landscape has changed in ways that offer women more control over the dissemination of erotic content. Feminist historians and researchers who study pornography say this may make it more possible for some women today to reveal and profit off their bodies in ways that are safe and satisfying. But they also note that in a culture where preoccupation with women's bodies contributes to their objectification and exploitation, greater individual choice still has complex social consequences.

'Secrets of Playboy':Hugh Hefner's former girlfriends, Playmates and employees allege a culture of abuse

"There are scenarios in which a person may be happy with what they produce and how they are paid for it, but if we zoom out further, if we don't just think about how that one person who made the content feels about it, or how the one viewer who views the content feels about it, then we ask how it contributes to social norms," said Emily Rothman, a professor of occupational therapy at Boston University who studies sexual violence and pornography. "If we're monetizing sexuality or beauty or availability or instant access to somebody, there are all kinds of things that we're monetizing in that situation that may then have implications for how people treat each other."

Whether posting hypersexualized images on Instagram, performing provocative dances on TikTok or sharing pornography on OnlyFans, women in 2022 have more control over what they share about their bodies and how, but they still do not control how those images are interpreted or experienced once they enter the public domain.

"There is what a woman who is offering an image of herself intends, and then, once it begins to circulate in the world, there are the very different meanings it takes on, and in some ways women can lose their power over those," said Sarah Leonard, a history professor at Simmons University.

Hugh Hefner was referring to 'a very different kind of sexual liberation than women were interested in'

Leonard said during second-wave feminism, more women began exploring their relationship to their own bodies. Hefner, she said, warped that idea for profit.

"It's opportunistic on the part of someone like Hugh Hefner to say, 'Oh, women are experiencing this sexual liberation' – I think what he was referring to was a very different kind of sexual liberation than women were interested in pursuing, which I think had a lot less to do with presenting their bodies for consumption and more to do with their relationship to sexuality and pleasure," she said.

Leonard said in the post-MeToo era, there is renewed attention on questions around women's bodies and consent. These questions proliferate in a world of ubiquitous social media, where more people are showing their bodies for a multitude of reasons. Some creators are rejecting standard beauty norms, others desire social capital, some seek approval, many want to profit.

Rothman says the site OnlyFans is a good example of how the landscape has shifted. OnlyFans is a subscription service where content creators can earn money from users – fans – who subscribe to their content. It has a reputation for sexually explicit media. Someone posting sexual content on OnlyFans can control the hours they work and the content they create. They can set their own price. No one may be telling them, "You have to do this," or "You have to do this in this way." A creator can make their own choices and is less likely to be harmed by the experience.

Bella Thorne made $2 million on OnlyFans?:What to know about the site

Leonard said there are instances today where women can reveal their bodies in ways that are empowering. Some women are participating in those displays while also critiquing the parts of those experiences that continue to be disempowering. Leonard points to Stoya, a writer and cultural critic who has appeared in pornographic films.

"I’m invested in the creation and spread of good pornography, even though I can’t say for certain what that looks like yet," Stoya wrote in the New York Times in 2018.

Leonard said more women are exercising control around erotic photos and sexual content, but it's impossible to ignore that those choices are made within a culture that still treats women as inferior.

'Not all producers of sexually explicit images are created equal'

Rothman said there are too many variables to make universal statements about women's autonomy in the context of pornography or sexually explicit images. There are too many different kinds of performers and people creating it and marketing it and producing it and paying for it, she said.

Rothman notes factors can also shift for an individual that may make them more or less satisfied with the sexual content they consent to. An individual performer may have a day where she feels satisfied with an image she shared, but the next week, in a very similar circumstance, feel less empowered.

Since content is consumed, Rothman said it's also important to think about the viewer.

"That viewer that we're picturing right now, what are their background factors in terms of their family, their psychology, other risk factors that they may have, or various problems that can arise based on whatever media they're viewing?" she said. "What kinds of supports do they have in their lives? What kinds of opportunities for healthy learning and sex education? There's a whole bunch of different factors that can affect what an individual viewer then does with what they're seeing."

Beyond implications for individual creators and viewers, the dissemination of these images has implications for society at large. Sexually explicit content can perpetuate sexist ideas of sex and sexuality. Seeing women sexually objectified may make a woman feel as though that is what she has to do in order to acquire social capital.

Women's sexual objectification can also impact their mental health, and has been linked to anxiety, depression and disordered eating. A 2019 study found "objectification of women is one mechanism by which TV consumption (even TV that does not explicitly depict sexual violence) and pornography use are related to attitudes and behaviors supportive of violence against women."

Rothman said when a woman chooses to share her body as an individual action, it's possible she can also be mindful of the larger social context in which she operates.

"There is a way in which you can simultaneously try to push back against the social norms that you wish would change," she said, "helping people to interpret the content that you've made, expressing your hope for the impact it will have."