The greatest to ever do it is walking away.

Former Tampa Bay Buccaneer and New England Patriot quarterback Tom Brady officially announced his retirement Tuesday morning, just one day after he said he was contemplating his options.

Brady, 44, has played in the league half his life, with 22 full seasons to his name, two of which came with Tampa Bay after he left New England after the 2019 season.

Brady now walks away with a commanding grip on several NFL records, many of which — at first blush — would appear to be impossible to reach. Perhaps the most impressive of those relate to his success, and his teams’ successes, in the postseason. Brady started 24 conference championship games or Super Bowls in his career. Simply put, he dominated the league.

"This is difficult for me to write, but here it goes: I am not going to make that competitive commitment anymore," Brady said Tuesday in the post that announced his retirement. "I have loved my NFL career, and now it is time to focus my time and energy on other things that require my attention.

"I've done a lot of reflecting the past week and have asked myself difficult questions. And I am so proud of what we have achieved. My teammates, coaches, fellow competitors, and fans deserve 100% of me, but right now, it's best I leave the field of play to the next generation of dedicated and committed athletes."

Here's everything we know about the G.O.A.T. walking away:

How did Tom Brady decide to retire?

On Saturday, USA TODAY Sports’ Mike Jones confirmed that Brady would be announcing his impending retirement. Brady, after the Buccaneers were eliminated from the playoffs in a 30-27 loss in the divisional round against the Los Angeles Rams, deflected on questions about his future, saying: "I haven’t put a lot of thought into it."

Brady's comments about his future, however, had notably softened from previous seasons, when he had said in no uncertain terms that he would be back and looked to play well into his mid-40s. After the loss against the Rams, Brady cited his family as an important factor in determining his future.

On Monday, in an appearance on the "Let's Go" podcast with Jim Gray, Brady said he was still contemplating his next steps and added: "I'm not going to race to some conclusion on that."

Then, just hours after that podcast published, Brady posted his announcement Tuesday morning on his social media channels and thanked former teammates, executives, coaches and fans in a lengthy statement. He also took the opportunity to thank his family for their support throughout his career.

ESPN had been the first outlet to report Saturday on Brady’s impending retirement.

With increasing frequency, Brady has mentioned that his family and a desire to spend more time with them would be one of the main reasons why he would walk away. The recent increase of transparency in his thinking, alone, pointed to a rare glimpse into his human side.

His reasons for leaving New England had, in part, a lot to do with the grueling grind that comes with preparing for an NFL season and weekly games. While he found a more relaxed approach in Tampa Bay under coach Bruce Arians, preparing for opponents and seasons is still taxing. After 22 seasons, he has accomplished all there is to accomplish in the sport.

Brady has also ventured into several successful business and media ventures, not limited to his health, wellness and recovery brand TB 12 Sports, in partnership with personal trainer and friend Alex Guerrero. Now that he won't have to game plan and practice, he's expected to give those ventures more time.

"The future is exciting," Brady said in his retirement announcement before citing three companies that he cofounded and would look to continue to grow. "As I said earlier, I am going to take it day by day. I know for sure I want to spend a lot of time giving to others and trying to enrich other people's lives, just as so many have done for me."

What will Tom Brady's legacy be?

Undoubtedly, it will be as the greatest quarterback — and player — of all time. It's not just the poise and methodical approach he took toward seeking competitive advantages, it's the metronomic consistency he embodied when he played. In fact, his retirement announcement alone is sending ripples across the league that he dominated.

But, on the business side of things, Brady also provided a blueprint for player empowerment. He sought independent treatments for his body that he felt were in his best interests. It's hard to argue with the results. He focused on pliability and healthy eating and became a paradigm of dependability, even into his mid-40s. He was an advocate for improvements in player rights and asserting more control over offseason workout practices. And, in his departure from the Patriots, he also showed the importance of wielding agency and control in player movements.

Brady even controlled the narrative in the media over the final seasons of his career, launching several video stories in which he directed what information got out, and how.

Much of this can be traced all the way back to his days in Ann Arbor, as the University of Michigan quarterback who just happened to get selected in the sixth round of the 2000 NFL draft.

What are others saying about Tom Brady?

Tributes have poured in from all corners of the NFL and sporting world. Former Patriots teammates shared their favorite Tom Brady stories.

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Brady "made everyone around him better and always seemed to rise to the occasion in the biggest moments." Buccaneers coach Bruce Arians called it "an honor" just to coach him.

Said Patriots owner Robert Kraft: "Words cannot describe the feelings I have for Tom Brady, nor adequately express the gratitude my family, the New England Patriots and our fans have for Tom for all he did during his career."

"I have always admired & respected his competitiveness, his dedication, his discipline, and his commitment to being the best," friend and former competitor Peyton Manning said.

As mentioned above, Brady will likely be untouchable for several NFL records in the decades to come — if not for the rest of the league’s history.

To start with some of the more notable ones, Brady walks away with the NFL record for most career passing yards in both the regular season (84,520) and the playoffs (13,049). He also has thrown for more touchdowns (624) than anyone.

He has NFL records for most Super Bowl appearances (10), victories (seven), Super Bowl Most Valuable Player awards (five).

The list goes on and on. We took a look at some of Brady’s more interesting stats here.

What's next for the NFL (and the Buccaneers)?

There will never be another Tom Brady. He's the product of a perfect storm of talent, drive and franchise stability. Still, there's a crop of young passers who might come close.

The Bucs will now need to find Brady's replacement and have some decisions to make about a roster that is still talented, but will look very different. Backup quarterback Blaine Gabbert is set to hit free agency, so he may be on the move. That leaves third-string passer Kyle Trask, a second-round rookie Tampa selected in the 2021 draft, as the only quarterback currently left on the roster.