Moses J. Moseley, known for his role as a zombie pet on "The Walking Dead," has died. He was 31.

The rising actor's manager Tabatha Minchew confirmed he died outside of Atlanta in Stockbridge, Georgia. Details of his death have not been released.

"Everyone is gutted and still processing this news. Moses was an amazing person who would (do) anything for you," Minchew wrote in a statement to USA TODAY. "He will be missed by many, his family, friends and fans. Moses was the sweetest kindest heart you would ever meet."

Moseley's on-screen career began as early as 2009 with a short film titled "Lockhavens," according to IMDb. He also made cameos in "Joyful Noise," "The Internship" and "Hunger Games: Catching Fire."

In an interview with The Times Herald, part of the USA TODAY Network, the actor spoke with the newspaper ahead of visiting the Morrow Road Haunted Trail in St. Clair for Halloween weekend. During the interview, Moseley said of all the projects he's been on “The Walking Dead” remains one of his favorite.

“It was one of the biggest blessings I ever got,” he said.

On the AMC series, Moseley played one of Michonne's pet zombies named Mike.

The show sent a tribute to Moseley on Twitter: "Our thoughts and prayers are with our #TWDFamily member Moses J. Moseley."

Other actors sent their condolences on social media as well.

"Heartbroken to hear of the passing of @MosesMoseley. Just an absolute kind and wonderful human being You will be missed my friend," Jeremy Palko, who played Andy on "The Walking Dead," wrote.

Another "Walking Dead" co-star Melissa Cowan shared memories of Moseley on Facebook.

"Oh god. This is just breaking my heart. Moses J. Moseley you were truly one of a kind and a class act. Always nice, funny and a smile to light any room," she wrote.

In 2019, the actor co-starred in popular series such as "Queen of the South" and HBO's "Watchmen."

Moseley's most recent role was in BET's "Tales," an anthology series by producer Irv Gotti which depicts Hip-Hop lyrics as stories.