What’s in the stars for you this month? Renowned Astrologer, Claudia Vannini reads your Eluxe horoscopes.

If you love Eluxe horoscopes as much as we do, why not get your personal birth chart done?

Love numerology, too? Check your numeroscope here.

Check your overall horoscope for 2022 here.

A month to call your own! February comes at a faster pace. After the 4th, Mercury returns to direct motion. All Planets follow in their orbits. Here on Earth, things happen. Planetary paralysis ends. Until April 29, no Planet will be retrograde. Knowing this, program yourself to act with perseverance and confidence in this phase. Mercury enters Aquarius on the 14th. Everyone turns their gaze to collective issues. We are forced to think like a big group. This is still difficult for us. We have to train tolerance and wisdom to live this moment. Tempers calm down on the 18th. The Sun enters Pisces and Planet Earth reduces individual disputes. Many laws appear to regulate conduct. Some groups riot, set fire to cars and block traffic. Even so, the most tumultuous moments are close to the 14th. A great month to all! Be Happy on Earth.

1st – NEW MOON in Aquarius – beginning of a new cycle

6th – Emerging Moon in Aries – a good time to take strength

14th – Hunchback Moon in Cancer – conducive to persevering in a theme

28th – Balsamic Moon in Capricorn – conducive to healing and forgiveness

Read your Sun Sign and Rising Sign, too. Have a good month, everyone!

Profit and progress mark your month. No matter what kind of stagnation you’ve been feeling lately, you have the power of all the planets backing you to burst through with some progress at last. Investments see dividends, and at work you stand out for those above you, and will be given new challenges to embrace. Take the opportunity to delve into yourself and make peace with your choices. Love is stable this month, and in fact, you’d prefer to be with friends than lovers (so much for Valentine’s Day!) Excellent health all month.

Two key words for you this month, Capricorn: calm and moderation! These are your tools for dealing with February. The month brings prosperity. Until the 18th, you’ll be able to make quick profits. Between the 18th and 28th, network and publicise your professional expertise. If you don’t let yourself to get too aggressive thanks to Mars, you’ll see great results. Health remains stable, but love is going through a difficult time. You feel like isolating yourself, but make the effort to be more loving and sociable for the sake of those who care about you.

There is a lot of work you could be doing, but you don’t care. All that’s on your mind is having a good time and relaxing. But do try to balance leisure with work, even if you go on vacation. There is money circulating if you want it, and good opportunities in the creative areas. There are also plenty of events going on and themes related to children. Those who have kids will spend much of the month focused on them. Your love life just doesn’t seem to be flowing well. Married and singletons both go through some highly emotional disputes. Try to be more flexible with your partner. Health remains fragile. Look for a more holistic approach to solve those problems.

Venus and Pluto are working in your favour, and as a result, there is more money circulating. This can come from good financial speculation, your own work, or a new job offer. If you are called for a new job, it would be wise to accept it. Though it might feel odd initially, the future, you will be grateful for this decision. Love is full of big surprises – both positive and negative. Singletons may find themselves entering into relationships with eccentric people or those they’d never have thought were ‘their type’. Health is fragile all month. Take care!

Finally: some financial improvement! Thanks to the movement of Venus, your month shows good financial results. There is also a chance of finding a better job. After the 18th, you dedicate yourself to matters of the heart, and that’s a good thing. Singletons could find an inspiring new person who is connected to the synchronicities of the Cosmos. This could be a love that happens first in the stars! Go with that flow. Married couples should practice meditation and yoga together to ensure they’re on the same frequency. Health calls for care after the 18th. Rest more.

It’s time to detox! The month calls for emotional – not physical – cleansing. How can you do this? Just let go of old concepts and thought patterns, no matter how tough that may be, and make room for new themes and beliefs in your life. There is prosperity in speculation and luck in new jobs. The second fortnight of the month is better for dealing with money. All month, your health improves a lot, and your love life remains strong. There are many friends around and networking with them could help your finances. Thought it’s usually strong, your libido increases even more, and as a result, you experience some adventures that could be positive or negative.

Feeling stuck? February calls you to broaden horizons. Your mind is ready to study new topics, travel more and get out of your comfort zone in general. Go down those rabbit holes! It’s a month with a steady income, until the 18th. After that, keep a tight budget, as there are disputes at work and in romance. Be wise and avoid useless arguments. Health is strengthened overall this month, and you’re feeling happy in your love life. Take the opportunity to clean out closets and cabinets and throw out old objects. Donate everything that is unused. You’ll be glad you did.

Imagine February as a small month for you. It’s pretty quiet all month, but you feel some prosperity between the 18th and 28th. Knowing this, spend carefully until the 18th, and don’t expect big profits from any contracts or work. After the 18th, everything will be more in your favour. Work and love both improve a lot. New studies and travels are also on your radar, but don’t happen quite yet. Continue to strengthen your networks, as friends have the keys you need in their hands. Health weakens after the 18th. Take vitamins and rest up.

Your month depends a lot on having good communications systems like phones and computers. Why? You have great opportunities to work from home or on websites and social media. If those opportunities come your way, accept them, but know that everything revolves around spreading information. Finances are good and there is professional growth. Listen to the recommendation of friends to help boost your love life. There is no crisis in this sector, but your health needs attention. Do not exceed your limits or overindulge.

There are some good surprises in your professional life! Mars and Venus collaborate with your month. You could get a new job or task to do, and as a result, you stand out in your current position. Make sure you deserve it. Your energy improves a lot. Take advantage of this good moment to further your profession and income. Health shows signs of recovery. By the end of the month, you will feel more refreshed. The realm of work is so positive, you might even find love there! And if you are married, enjoy it: February is an easy month for you and your partner.

For more Eluxe horoscopes, a personal or daily reading, astrological chart or ‘karmic’ reading of your personality, contact: pegadaastrologica@gmail.com. Follow Claudia on Instagram here.