RENO, Nev. (AP) — Democratic Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto raised $3.3 million the last three months of 2021 in her bid for reelection in the swing state of Nevada, more than twice as much as either of the leading candidates seeking the Republican nomination to try to unseat her.

Cortez Masto won in 2016 by 2.4 percentage points. She’s expected to face a tough reelection campaign as Republicans try to flip her seat and give the GOP a majority in the evenly split chamber.

Cortez Masto finished the year with $10.4 million cash on hand, a record for a Senate candidate in Nevada, her campaign said.

The $3.3 million she raised the last three months of the year was also $1 million more than any previous Senate candidate during the respective quarter, her campaign said.

She now has raised about $17 million for the election cycle and spent about $7.5 million on expenses, including consulting, mail ads and polling. She spent $1.15 million during the last quarter and reported no loans and no debt at the end of the year.

The latest figures posted on the Federal Election Commission's web site Tuesday showed she is one of 10 Senate candidates nationally who has raised $17 million or more.

Laxalt, who has the support of former President Donald Trump, now has raised about $2.8 million for the election cycle. He finished the year with about $1.7 million cash on hand and no debt.

Laxalt, who lost Nevada's 2018 gubernatorial race to Democrat Steve Sisolak, said his new fourth quarter numbers “show the growing strength of our campaign” and make him one of the best-funded Senate challengers in the nation.

“Our campaign is ready to flip the 51st seat for a new GOP majority,” he said Tuesday.

Brown, a small business owner who was a relative political unknown when he entered the race last year, has raised more than $2 million for the cycle. He reported $732,406 cash on hand at the end of the year.

Brown, who loaned himself $16,900 and reports that as his campaign's only debt, said he's on track to raise nearly $4 million by the June 14 GOP primary.

“Last quarter, we showed America that we had started a movement for new conservative leadership. Now, we have shown that this movement is here to stay,” Brown said Tuesday. “We aren't funded by the Washington political class or PACs seeking a coronation."

Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.