He noted that the Constitution calls for Senate “advice and consent," on a nominee, and he said, ”I’m serious when I say I want the advice of the Senate as well as the consent."

As Biden mulls a replacement for Breyer — a Black woman, he has promised — Durbin has been proposing a ceasefire of sorts after wrenching partisan fights over former President Donald Trump’s three nominees. The Democratic Illinois senator has been vigorously reaching out to GOP colleagues since Breyer announced last week that he will step down this summer.

At a committee meeting Tuesday morning, Grassley criticized Democratic advocates who pressured Breyer to retire, and he said nominees should be judged “solely on their qualifications.” He said he told the president “that I want somebody that’s going to interpret law, not make law.”

The court was made up entirely of white men for almost two centuries. Justice Clarence Thomas and the late Thurgood Marshall are the only two Black men who have served on the court. There has never been a Black woman.

Durbin has noted that Republican Presidents Ronald Reagan and Donald Trump both promised to pick women and were praised when they nominated Sandra Day O’Connor and Amy Coney Barrett, respectively. There have been only five female justices in U.S. history, while there have been 110 men.

Collins is a particularly important target for Democrats. She has voted for some of Biden’s lower court judges and against Barrett’s nomination in 2020. Durbin called her within hours of learning that Breyer would step down, and has made clear that Democrats won’t rush the confirmation, in line with her call for a deliberate process.

“The reason for us to try to get the nomination process back to the way it used to be when Supreme Court nominees were frequently confirmed overwhelmingly is the credibility of the court is at stake,” she said. “If the court is perceived by the American public as a political institution, that is harmful and undermines support for its decisions.”

Two other Republicans have signaled they could vote for a Biden nominee — if it is the right one. South Carolina Sens. Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott have both praised J. Michelle Childs, a federal judge who got her law degree from the University of South Carolina School of Law. The White House has said Childs is under consideration.

Other Republicans could be open to voting for a Biden nominee, as well. Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, who is up for re-election this year, has supported some of his judicial nominees. And some GOP senators said this week that they have no problem with Biden’s approach. Missouri Sen. Roy Blunt said he would be “happy to vote for the first Black woman.”

Working to win bipartisan support will be former Alabama Sen. Doug Jones, a Democrat who often crossed party lines before he was defeated for reelection in 2020. Jones will serve as the lead official for the White House to shepherd the nomination, said two people familiar with the discussions who spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity. The former senator and U.S. attorney is another old friend of the president's, dating back to Biden's first presidential campaign in 1988.

Durbin acknowledged the challenges ahead, and the balance Biden will have to strike in picking the right person. He said that in reviewing early names that have been floated, he believes each is open to more moderate or conservative rulings.

“So that will be a plus and a minus,” Durbin said. “Some Republicans may point to it as a reason to vote for her. Some in the far left may find it as a reason to vote against her.”