KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — A winter storm set to move across the country this week could drop more than a foot of snow in parts of Missouri and Kansas and, more ominously, coat trees and power lines with freezing rain.

The National Weather Service issued a winter storm warning for most of Missouri and southern and eastern parts of Kansas starting Tuesday night and running through Thursday. Up to 14 inches (35.56 centimeters) of snow could fall in the Kansas City area and up to 10 inches (25.4 centimeters) around St. Louis, according to the weather service. Southwestern Kansas could see up to 8 inches (20.32 centimeters).

But forecasters are warning that it’s the threat of freezing rain — up to a quarter-inch (0.64 centimeters) in southwestern Missouri — coupled with the snow and high winds that could lead to widespread power outages, even as wind chills plummet below zero overnight Wednesday into Thursday.

Missouri Gov. Mike Parson on Tuesday declared a state of emergency and activated the Missouri National Guard in an effort to help local jurisdictions to prepare for and respond to the snow.

By Tuesday afternoon, St. Louis Lambert International Airport had cancelled 120 scheduled Wednesday departures, according to the flight tracking service FlightAware.com. Kansas City also was cancelling more flights than usual for Wednesday.

Officials warned that travel during the storm will be treacherous, if not impossible, leading several school districts, universities and colleges to cancel classes or go to online learning. The University of Missouri will have only online classes on Wednesday and Thursday, while some smaller colleges, such as Lincoln University in Jefferson City, will close.

Amtrak also announced it would not run its once-daily route between St. Louis and Kansas City on Wednesday and Thursday.

The looming weather also led Missouri officials to cancel legislative sessions for Wednesday and Thursday. In Kansas City, residents learned that trash pickup had been canceled for the remainder of the week.

The Kansas Legislature canceled all of its Wednesday meetings and most of its business for the rest of the week.

Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.