AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — As state leaders push hospitals for quicker vaccinations against COVID-19, health officials acknowledge Texas some shipments have been delayed or needed to be replaced, and some providers report they don’t yet have enough to start giving shots to the next round of eligible patients.

The Texas Hospital Association said Wednesday that several shipments of the Moderna version of the vaccine had to be set aside and replaced because of concerns that cold storage requirements had been compromised. Moderna officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

“Operation Warp Speed is tracking a few incidents of temperature readings outside the acceptable threshold," the statement said. "In every instance, the process worked — the shipment was inspected and replaced, as needed. We are confident in the integrity of both the safety measures and contingency plans in place to overcome this type of event.”

At least one hospital group, Ascension Seton in Austin, said Wednesday it has distributed about 10,000 vaccines to area healthcare workers and first responders, but will remain focused on that group and will start with the next phase of eligible patients “when supply allows.”

In a letter to vaccine providers Tuesday, state Health Commissioner Dr. John Hellerstedt said they could start giving vaccines to people 65 or older and in other designated high-risk categories. Hellerstedt and Gov. Greg Abbott urged hospitals to give shots as quickly as possible and suggested some might be withholding doses.

The comments from Hellerstedt and Abbott, however, show mounting frustration the numbers aren’t bigger. But Abbott, a Republican who has been buffeted with criticism from Democrats and from within his own party on the state’s coronavirus response in 2020, has said little in recent days about the vaccine rollout outside of a Tuesday tweet that no doses should be held in reserve.

In Harris County, which includes Houston, residents received an alert they should cancel all gathering and should not celebrate the holiday with anyone outside of their household.

Under the order, any venues serving food and drinks will not be closed entirely, but will be limited to drive-thru, curbside, delivery or take-out service from 10:30 p.m. to 6 a.m. each night from Thursday until Sunday morning.