RT/ Official Paris refused to withdraw its troops from Mali – the fighters of the PMC “Wagner” are asked to “help”.

After the French authorities refused to comply with the ultimatum of the Mali authorities on the immediate withdrawal of French troops from the country, it became known that Wagner PMC fighters were asked to intervene in this situation and help expel the French military from the territory of the republic.

The reason for the conflict between the authorities of Mali and France was the fact that in Paris they refused to recognize the power of the African republic as legitimate, and the government of Mali was called persons closely associated with the Wagner PMC. Against the backdrop of how the French authorities refused to withdraw troops from Mali, Wagner mercenaries were asked to “help” the French troops leave the country in any way possible, hinting to Paris on possible serious clashes and losses for the French military.

According to various sources, today in Mali there may be over a thousand Wagner PMC mercenaries, which will become a very big problem for the French military contingent, especially if we take into account the fact that Wagner PMC may be armed with helicopters, electronic warfare systems “Krasukha” and ZRPK “Pantsir-S”, as was observed in Libya. Earlier, Paris demanded that Russia prevent the appearance of Wagner PMC mercenaries in Mali, but the Russian side stated that it could not interfere in the affairs of Mali and a private military company.

ATTENTION READERS

 Due to the nature of independent content, VT cannot guarantee content validity.

We ask you to Read Our Content Policy so a clear comprehension of VT's independent non-censored media is understood and given its proper place in the world of news, opinion and media.



 All content is owned by author exclusively. Expressed opinions are NOT necessarily the views of VT, other authors, affiliates, advertisers, sponsors, partners or technicians. Some content may be satirical in nature. All images within are full responsibility of author and NOT VT.



 About VT - Read Full Policy Notice - Comment Policy Due to the nature of independent content, VT cannot guarantee content validity.We ask you toso a clear comprehension of VT's independent non-censored media is understood and given its proper place in the world of news, opinion and media.All content is owned by author exclusively. Expressed opinions are NOT necessarily the views of VT, other authors, affiliates, advertisers, sponsors, partners or technicians. Some content may be satirical in nature. All images within are full responsibility of author and NOT VT.