Will Trump’s Written Confession Regarding Pence “Overturning” Election Prod DOJ into Action?

[ Editor’s Note: We are getting closer to the nitty gritty for the DoJ to have a solid initial indictment on Trump. Glenn feels that continued delays puts wind in the sails of Trump rallies to continue Insurrection 2.0, making a bad situation worse than it is.

Newsweek, Jan 31rst: Donald Trump has been accused of saying the “quiet part out loud” after suggesting Mike Pence should have “overturned the election” last January 6, but “unfortunately” failed to do so during his role as presiding officer of the Senate.

In a statement on Sunday night, Trump was denouncing bipartisan efforts to update the Electoral Count Act of 1887 to make it clear that a vice president doesn’t have the constitutional or legal power to prevent election results from being certified.

However, Trump interpreted the proposals as a way to prevent VPs from being able to change the outcome of the results, once again falsely suggesting Pence therefor had the power to do so.

We did see the DoJ indict the OathKeepers. But when going over every page of the indictment it was obvious that the DoJ had had all of the cel phone and messaging communications for a long time. Their indictments appeared to have been something that could have been done six months ago.

Is the DoJ holding off until the Jan6 Committee lays out what it has found, to not pre-empt its having center stage? The Committee has been backing up its ‘going public’ date, now into a May or April. Does the DoJ want to come behind them a month later for a one-two punch.

We will have to wait and see, but the Trump army grows week by week. We already know the DoJ does not have to have a completed investigation, because it can charge with one count and then later amend it with additional ones.

Trump is already using this time to build a protest army to light the country on fire if he is indicted, and then blame the conflagration on the ‘crooked’ Jan 6 Committee and the DoJ.

The flip side of that is that the DoJ has a ton of wiretaps on the Trumper army, collecting tons of evidence on Insurrection 2.0 to bury them under. We will have to wait and see… Jim W. Dean ]

Jim's Editor’s Notes are solely crowdfunded via PayPal

 Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving & more. Thanks for helping. Click to donate >>