GEMMA Collins sips on beer in sweet photos from her younger years.

One of her oldest friends shared snaps of the pair on Instagram as Gemma turned 41 years old on Monday.

Fitness instructor Vicky Young wrote alongside the photos: "Happy birthday to this beaut I am proud to say to is one of my oldest besties 😊 37 years of friendship, laughter and tears!

"Beautifull inside and out, always giving off such positive energy when she is around, and a fab aunty to my boys 🥰, have the best day loveyou lots ❤️"

Former Towie star Gemma also took a video on Monday to show her fans "what it looks like to be 41".

She cut a trim figure in a black swimsuit, and the reality TV star placed her hands on her hips as she showed off her noticeably slimmer waistline.

Appearing make-up free, with her blonde hair tied up in a ponytail, Gemma revealed her cleavage through the black polka-dot mesh.

"Good morning everyone - I just wanted to say this is 41, and this is what it looks like," she told her fans as she smiled from ear to ear in the clip.

"I've been working so hard the past couple of weeks, shaping up. But do you know what? I made it to 41, I feel fit, I feel good.

"I want to say thank you for all your lovely birthday messages. I've been at a spa, I've been working out, been eating well, I've been exercising and it's all showing."

Gemma signed off by blowing a kiss towards the camera as she thanked fans "for the love" - before musing in the caption about her pregnancy hopes.

"All I need is a little GC and my life will be very fulfilled and complete, please god," she wrote in the caption - after revealing her baby plans last year.

Gemma recently got engaged to her ex Rami Hawash after the couple rekindled their relationship in lockdown, seven years after they first got engaged.

The star and the Essex businessman are planning their wedding, but confessed they were not making a song and dance about it because his divorce is yet to come through.

The pair recently enjoyed a romantic date night together after a boozy day out.