A new analysis compiled by Dr. Jessica Rose reveals a shocking number of spontaneous abortions in pregnant women who’ve received the COVID-19 jab.

Dr. Jessica Rose has a Post Doctorate in both Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. She has a PhD in Computational Biology and a Masters in Immunology, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics. These modalities have given her a solid base in which she uses to deep dive into VAERS (Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System) reports and provide data analysis surrounding the adverse events profile of the COVID injectables.

Using data released by the Department of Defense (DoD), Dr. Rose computed an under reporting factor (URF) for spontaneous abortions in VAERS (Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System) of 118.

Her investigation revealed, to date, 416,186 spontaneous abortions due to the experimental injections. She reportedly contacted the CDC but doesn’t expect a reply from the agency.

“Since there are 3,527 reports of SA in the US in 2021, this represents 416,186 actual events,” explains Steve Kirsch, noting that around 99 percent of these were, in fact, caused by the jabs. (Related: Covid jabs are also harming children who make it out of the womb.) “Using the DMED data, the five-year average was 1,499 codes for miscarriages per year. During the first 10 months of 2021, it was 4,182. So that’s 3.4X the baseline rate (when extended to an annual rate).” Keep in mind that pregnant women were never even included in the vaccine trials, even though the CDC continues to urge them to get injected in order to “flatten the curve.” “It is medical malpractice to recommend the vaccines to pregnant women,” Dr. Rose says. “The CDC repeatedly declared them safe for pregnant women without complete data.”

Attorney Thomas Renz read shocking statistics from the DoD data at Senator Ron Johnson’s COVID-19 ‘A Second Opinion’ hearing:

Plenty of evidence in VAERS showing the vaccine messes with a woman’s reproductive organs just as we predicted from the biodistribution data (which targeted the ovaries). You can view both the biodistribution data and the menstrual adverse effect data in this VAERS analysis article I wrote in November, 2022. See also this article about IVF clinics and what happened in Singapore and syncytin-1. For others, may I suggest if you disagree with this that you show us an error in the data or methodology?