Western Australia has enacted arguably the most wicked COVID-19 jab mandate anywhere in the world with their latest measures.

Premier Mark McGowan wants to torture Western Australian residents, and his decree on unvaccinated individuals is pure evil.

Starting January 31st, Western Australia will have the “broadest” vaccine passport rules in Australia.

The draconian policy extends to hospitals, and unvaccinated parents will be banned from visiting their sick children inside the hospital.

The hospital visitation plan would only allow those with medical exemptions or facing dire consequences.

It’s a sickening measure that places parents in the cruelest predicament to visit their ill child in the hospital.

Sadly, the Australian mainstream media acted as the government’s mouthpiece and applauded the sinister policy.

Caldron Pool writer Evelyn Rae published this response to the inhumane policy:

Last month, McGowan vowed to make life “very difficult” for the unvaccinated, warning that anyone who has not yet received a COVID-19 vaccine will be barred from numerous public settings. “If you for some reason have not had your first dose yet, my advice would be to make a booking today otherwise life is about to get very difficult for you,” the Premier said. Of course, the mainstream media in Australia have applauded the draconian move. Basil Zempilas, Lord Mayor of Perth, told Seven’s Sunrise that the state government may be “banking on” unjabbed parents taking the vaccination out of desperation to be with their sick children. NATIONAL POLL: Are You Happy Melania Replaced Michelle As First Lady? “The ability to go and see your loved one, if you’re unvaccinated, may well be taken away from you. And could that be the trigger to make you change your mind? And I guess, that’s the force at play here. It’s a tough decision isn’t it,” Zempilas said.

The Western Australian government stated situations would be decided on a case-by-case decision.

‘These would be assessed on a case-by-case basis with information collected to assess the risks to the individuals involved and the staff/hospital setting in which the exemptions may apply,’ a spokesman said. ‘It would be expected that unvaccinated Western Australians wanting to visit patients/family members in the hospital setting would be required to wear PPE and possibly provide negative RAT tests prior to attending the venue.’ The WA CHO noted these rules are already in place in several other states including New South Wales, South Australia and Queensland.