It’s an encouraging sight to see American youth courageously stand up to COVID tyranny like their English counterparts.

Reports from Herculaneum, Missouri, stated a high student was escorted from school and driven home by a police officer.

What was the student’s ‘crime?’

He chose to breathe fresh air and not wear a mask.

The student defied the school district’s mask mandate, and dozens of his classmates walked out in solidarity to protest the policy.

Tristan Watson is a senior varsity football athlete at Herculaneum High School and is currently fighting for his right to go back to school without a mask. He spoke to our partner station 97.1 FM Talk on Monday. “The goal is to go to school,” Watson says (photoed below holding a sign that states “I am trespassing if I go to school.” “And I’ve been told if I don’t wear a mask, I will be escorted out and charged with trespassing.” Watson say he was told Jan. 26 about the mask requirement, but it wasn’t until the following day that he was removed from school. On Monday, as many as 50 students at the high school walked out of class in protest of the district’s face mask policy. Watson says the threat is in place until masking policies change in the school district. A mask mandate for all students and staff in the district went into effect on Jan. 24, according to a COVID-19 Response plan release by the district. The district reviews its mask policy once per month. Dunklin R-5 School District spokesperson Matt Lichtenstein says the Herculaneum Police Department was asked to help get the student home because his parents weren’t home and the school’s resource officer was out sick. “He was not arrested. He was not put in handcuff,” Lichtenstein says.

Watson hasn’t returned to school since his escort home and attempted to compromise with school officials, according to the report.

He proposed to sit in a “small closet” and have other classmates deliver his work to him.

As Audacy noted, Watson is an exceptional student and only wishes to breathe freely at school:

WLT has reported on the dangers of mask wearing, including oxygen deprivation and psychological effects.