A 3-year-old boy from Cyprus has been flown to Greece for emergency heart surgery after doctors in Germany refused to treat the child because his parents were unvaccinated against COVID-19.

The boy, whose name remains undisclosed, was reportedly denied treatment by three countries before being flown by air ambulance to Greece over the weekend.

Cypriot hospitals could not perform the necessary procedure for the child hospitalized with a serious heart condition.

The health ministry arranged for the child to be flown to Germany last Thursday, according to Politico.

However, the day before the transfer was supposed to take place, the hospital in Frankfurt informed the Cypriot authorities that it would not be going ahead because the boy’s parents had not had the COVID-19 vaccine. Cyprus suggested that the child could be accompanied by a legal guardian instead of his parents but this suggestion was turned down. A German health ministry official confirmed there is no rule that says hospitals cannot treat unvaccinated people, let alone children whose parents are not vaccinated. However, the official added that each hospital has its own restrictions and makes its own arrangements with patients. “Health policies — including vaccination policies — and their concrete implementation are the responsibility of the member states, not the Commission,” said a spokesperson for the European Commission’s health department. The Cypriot authorities tried to get specialized health centers in the United Kingdom and Israel to perform the operation but were turned down for the same reason given by Germany.

However, it later emerged that there had been another complication and that the child had been diagnosed with viral pneumonia on arrival in Athens. The Cypriot health ministry’s permanent secretary Christina Yiannaki said the boy had been admitted to intensive care. The child, who is from a Russian family, had his flight to Frankfurt canceled last week after it emerged that his parents were not vaccinated. He had been treated in the same hospital there last year.

The boy’s parents were vaccinated on Thursday but have to wait six weeks before their inoculation records are recognized abroad.

Alexey Matveev, the boy’s father and a Russian national living in Cyprus, expressed his outrage in a Facebook post.

“I didn’t know that I had to be vaccinated for my child to be operated on in that hospital. If I knew it of course I would have done it … I am healthy and did not want to be vaccinated. I find it inappropriate for someone who is healthy to be vaccinated,” he said. “This is blackmail and war on people. No, it’s not parental negligence, it’s just killing my son,” he wrote in a Facebook tirade.

Although Permanent Secretary Yiannaki insisted the parents knew about the policy, it’s an abomination to humanity to have the requirement.

Everyone involved in the denied heart surgery has lost their soul and should feel ashamed for these inhumane actions.