However, you will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy than if you turn on “the View.”

The ladies on that show make a point of making the most disgusting comments on a daily basis.

Heck, they may even rival MSNBC!

Whoopi Goldberg is the unofficial leader of the group, and she may have just proven why.

To the shock of even her co-hosts, Goldberg implied that the Holocaust was not about race.

After a wave of mild backlash (liberal get out of jail free card), Whoopi did eventually apologize, sort of…

Here’s more on Whoopi’s nasty comments from Fox News:

ABC’s “The View” co-host Whoopi Goldberg declared the Holocaust was “not about race” despite the systematic killing of an estimated six million Jews, leading to sharp criticism of the outspoken liberal. The daytime gabfest was in the midst of a conversation about a Tennessee school district voting to remove a Pulitzer Prize winning graphic novel about the Holocaust from its curriculum due to “inappropriate language” and an illustration of a nude woman. “Maus” by Art Spiegelman tells the story of his Jewish parents living in 1940s Poland and depicts him interviewing his father about his experiences as a Holocaust survivor. Ana Navarro mentioned a Florida bill that could prevent any conversation in schools that makes students feel uncomfortable race or gender, prompting Sunny Hostin to ponder if teaching students about topics like the Holocaust could eventually be prohibited. “The Holocaust isn’t about race,” Goldberg said as her co-hosts appeared stunned.

Here are the disturbing comments from Goldberg:

Accountability is a word that liberals like Goldberg don’t have to worry about.

At worst, they simply apologize and then everyone pretends it never happened.

It’s disgusting, and it’s due time that they be held to the same standard that they hold everyone else to.

It’s okay though, because Whoopi “apologized” on Stephen Colbert’s show.

She says her comments were “misunderstood.”

A Holocaust survivor offered to come on the show to educate Goldberg: