The police watchdog issued the force with 15 recommendations after an investigation into misconduct at Charing Cross Police Station.

Operation Hotton was sparked in March 2018 and found text and WhatsApp messages between officers which were highly sexualised, discriminatory or referred to violence, which officers often defended as ‘banter’.

They included one sent by a male officer to a female colleague saying: “I would happily rape you”.

The conclusions are particularly damning in the aftermath of the kidnap, rape and murder of Sarah Everard, 33, by Met firearms officer Wayne Couzens last March.

Although the team at Charing Cross has since disbanded, the Independent Office for Police Conduct said it believed “these incidents are not isolated or simply the behaviour of a few bad apples”.

Officers joked about attending a festival dressed as known sex offenders.

The IOPC found repeated mocking of non-Christian religions, the Black Lives Matter movement, people with disabilities, racism and homophobia.

Racist texts were also sent about Muslim “fanatics”, “Somalian rats”, and others which made reference to Auschwitz.

A police officer forwarded a colleague an image of a black man wearing a white shirt. His colleague asked, “What’s good about it I don’t get it lol.” He replied, “Ignore the robber…I like the shirt.”

There were numerous messages about rape.

A message that when unchallenged between two officers started with Officer 1 saying: “You ever slapped your missus?”

“It makes them love you more. Seriously since I did that she won’t leave me alone. Now I know why these daft c**** are getting murdered by their spastic boyfriends. "Knock a bird about and she will love you. Human nature. They are biologically programmed to like that s***.”

The Met said it had already taken a number of steps and that an independent review by Baroness Louise Casey is being conducted into its culture and ethics.

Fourteen police officers were investigated after the comments came to light, said the IOPC. Two officers were dismissed for gross misconduct and barred from policing.

One resigned prior to the hearings.

Regional Director Sal Naseem said: “The behaviour we uncovered was disgraceful and fell well below the standards expected of the officers involved.

“While these officers predominantly worked in teams in Westminster, which have since been disbanded, we know from other recent cases that these issues are not isolated or historic.”

Mr Naseem praised officers who came forward, saying that in doing so risked “being ostracised, demeaned or told to get another job.”

The Met apologised for the officers’ behaviour Monday, saying it was “deeply sorry to Londoners and everyone they have failed with their appalling conduct”.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bas Javid said: “I am angry and disappointed to see officers involved in sharing sexist, racist and discriminatory messages.

“It’s clear we have a lot of work to do to ensure bullying and discrimination does not exist in any part of the Met.”

Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said he was “utterly disgusted” at the behaviour outlined in the report.

“The conduct of these officers was totally unacceptable and what has been revealed by these investigations will only further damage public trust and confidence in the police,” he said.

"It is right that the team concerned has been disbanded and the police officers found to be involved have been dismissed, disciplined or have left the police.

“Anyone found to be responsible for sexism, racism, misogyny, Islamophobia, antisemitism, bullying or harassment does not deserve to wear the Met uniform and must be rooted out.”

Mr Khan added that while he welcomed the IOPC’s findings, more action was needed and that he had been clear with Commissioner Cressida Dick “about the scale of change that's needed to rebuild trust with Londoners”.