The overwhelming majority of Americans believe it's time to move on from covid, according to a new Monmouth poll.

 

 From Monmouth:

 Fully 7 in 10 Americans (70%) agree with the sentiment that “it’s time we accept that Covid is here to stay and we just need to get on with our lives” – including 78% of those who report having gotten Covid and 65% of those who say they have not been infected. The main difference in the sense that it is time to move on is due to partisanship – ranging from 89% of Republicans and 71% of independents to 47% of Democrats. Only one-third of the public (34%) feels the country will get the outbreak under control and return to normal by the end of the year. In fact, more than 1 in 4 (28%) now believe a return to normalcy will never happen, which is up from 22% who felt this way in September and just 6% who were similarly pessimistic exactly a year ago. [...] Four in 10 Americans (40%) report that they have had Covid – or think they have had it – since the pandemic began, including 27% who said their infection was confirmed with a test. About one-third (36%) of people who have been vaccinated report also being infected with Covid (note: the poll did not ask whether infection occurred before or after vaccination) and about 6 in 10 (61%) of those who have not gotten a shot say they have been infected with the virus.

 

 [...] The Monmouth University Poll was conducted by telephone from January 20 to 24, 2022 with 794 adults in the United States. Why didn't the poll simply ask if they got covid after getting vaxxed? 

 

 Wouldn't that be interesting to know? 

 

 Of course, they don't want to know the answer.

 

 We were all told the "vaccines" were 95% effective (or more) against infection and even more effective against hospitalizations and death.

 

 

 

 We now know that was all a load of crap.

 

 The gap between 5% failure to prevent infection and 36% failure is very large and it's only going to get larger as VE has imploded and potentially turned negative.

 

 Regardless, conservative counties moved on from covid a year ago but Democrat counties are still clinging to their masks and vaxing their children.

 

 That said, only around 41.5% of the vaxxed have gotten their booster shot, according to the CDC's data.

 

 Is that not a massive indicator of vaxgret (vaccine regret)?

 

 Follow InformationLiberation on Twitter, Facebook, Gab, Minds, Parler and Telegram.