A gym owner who gave free memberships to people who refused to get the COVID-19 vaccination is running for Congress.

Ian Smith, owner of Atilis Gym in Bellmawr, New Jersey wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday he is running because he believes "our public officials have forgotten who they work for."

"People, not politicians. For too long, good people have not gotten involved in politics - whether that is because the establishment won't open the door for them or they don't want to participate in the foul world of politics," he wrote. "More than anything, this needs to change. And I will be a part of that change."

Smith previously made headlines for his opposition to COVID-19 restrictions and comments surrounding the COVID-19 vaccines.

"We are giving out free memberships to all who don't get vaccinated. We believe in health—the real way—exercise, good diet, plenty of Vitamin D, Zinc, and an environment to destress," he said last March.

However, public health officials say the COVID-19 vaccine is the best way to prevent serious illness from the virus. Even if people become infected, the vaccine is proven to mitigate symptoms and limit hospitalization and deaths.

Defying an executive order issued by Governor Phil Murphy requiring gyms and other public venues to shut down temporarily due to the pandemic, Smith reopened the gym in May 2020.

Smith is running in New Jersey's Third Congressional District against Democratic incumbent Representative Andy Kim, who is largely favored to hold the district which was recently redrawn to be more Democratic-leaning in redistricting.

The Cook Political Report, which tracks congressional races, classifies the race as Safe Democratic. Although Trump narrowly won the previous configuration of the district—while Kim also won by eight points—President Joe Biden would have won by nearly 15 percent under the new district lines, making it a long-shot bid for any Republican.

He will face businessman Bob Healey and realtor Nicholas Ferrara in the GOP primary. Healey has raised more than $500,000 for his campaign, the New Jersey Globe reported.

He faced social media backlash at the time of his vaccine comments.

"Good for you for this promotion. The catch is that your clients will die or become physically compromised after having Covid. Are you going to kick out people who have been vaccinated?" wrote Twitter user @janetMa45635541.

Newsweek reached out to both Smith and Kim's and Healy's campaigns for comment but did not hear back by publication. This story will be updated with any response.