'Freedom Convoy' truckers and protesters continued late Monday to block a border crossing into the US at a village in southern Alberta - one of the country's busiest border crossings - in solidarity with their brethren in Ottawa who have shut down the nation's capital.

Motorists traveling across the border between Montana and Alberta have been caught in blockade of vehicles that have essentially shut down the highway south of the city of Lethbridge, Alberta, 65 miles to the Canada-U.S. border crossing in the village of Coutts.

Despite being 2,000 miles away from Ottawa, the demonstration is related directly to what is happening in the Canadian capital where protests are running into a fourth day against Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and COVID-19 vaccine mandates - which require unvaccinated truckers to get a PCR test and quarantine.

Earlier Monday, Trudeau declared he will not be meeting with truckers currently overrunning Ottawa in protest of his vaccine mandate because of their 'hateful rhetoric.'

The truckers in Alberta were met with backlash from local law enforcement, who ordered the drivers to put ther rigs in gear and stop blocking trucks and other international commuters from crossing the currently gridlocked border.

But drivers stationed along the border have refused to budge from the major artery for commercial goods between the nations.

Canadian trucker John Schwarz was caught up in it for 40 hours while coming back from Idaho.

'These guys are basically holding us hostage, and nobody's doing anything about it,' Schwarz Canadian trucker John Schwarz, who was stuck in the blockade for 40 hours on the way back from Idaho, told CBC News.

By Monday afternoon, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said some vehicles were being allowed to leave the traffic jam but that the border was still blocked. A few hours later, some truckers had been persuaded to leave.

'Through negotiations and continuous talks with the organizers of the event, in the last little bit, the organizers agreed to open up, and some of the vehicles have been allowed to leave,' RCMP Cpl. Curtis Peters said.

'Some of these guys have been stuck here for for three days, and you know, no access to shower [or] food and away from their families. So it's good news for them.'

The blockade was also affecting life in the village of Coutts, where 100 trucks along Highway 4 prevented a school bus from leaving the village in order to get to the nearest school.

Residents of Coutts, of which there are around 250, were also unable to get to the village grocery store, gas station and pharmacy.

'I'm disappointed, I think is the main thing,' Coutts Mayor Jim Willett said. 'Not impressed, with the fact that they blocked off the highway. This event is unlawful'

A plan had been worked out with the town in order that life within the village could carry on as normal, but things quickly fell apart once truckers were refused across the border.

RCMP were also telling people trying to get into the U.S. to head to a different border crossing, while in Montana the situation was similar.

'Officials in Montana are stopping and advising motorists, commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles to find an alternative route as they won't be able to get through once they cross into Canada,' Cpl. Peters said.

The RCMP has since declared the event to be unlawful.

'When an event becomes unlawful, we utilize a measured approach, which ultimately includes enforcement,' the statement read.

'This event is unlawful and we are asking those who are involved to clear the area.'

Alberta Premier Jason Kenney has also called for the local blockade to draw to a close, adding that it was causing 'significant inconvenience for lawful motorists.'

The Alberta border crossing is used by truckers transporting a range of goods across the border including food such as beef, and farm equipment.

'For the most part, trucks can cross at other ports. It might be a bit of a delay and an additional expense to get there, but it is something that they can do,' said Carrie Barrows, who manages one of the brokerages. '

Trudeau, 50, held a press conference from isolation at an undisclosed location after testing positive for COVID-19 earlier that day. Two of the prime minister's three children also tested positive for the virus.

'Over the past few days, Canadians were shocked and frankly, disgusted by the behavior displayed by some people protesting in our nation's capital,' Trudeau said, referring to the unrest in Ottawa, which began on Saturday.

When asked whether he was going to meet the protesters, Trudeau said he had no interest in going 'anywhere near protests that have expressed hateful rhetoric and violence towards their fellow citizens.'

The politician went on to assert that he had personally attended protests himself when he 'agreed with the goals' being fought for, such as those championed by Black Lives Matter, but dismissed the truckers' dissent - which was spurred by the politico's own policies - as 'racist' and 'violent.'

'I have attended protests and rallies in the past when I agreed with the goals, when I supported the people expressing their concerns and their issues,' Trudeau said.

'But I have also chosen to not go anywhere near protests that have expressed hateful rhetoric, violence towards fellow citizens, and a disrespect not just of science, but of the frontline health workers and quite frankly, the 90 per cent of truckers who have been doing the right thing to keep Canadians safe to put food on our tables.'

The double-pronged effort from the coalition of more than 50,000 Canadian truck drivers - which has remained largely peaceful - was spurred by recent policies implemented by Trudeau's office that declared that by January 15, all truckers in the country who are unvaccinated must take a COVID-19 test and quarantine when driving back from the states.

Per the progressive politician's new guidance, Canadian drivers who are not vaccinated are barred from entering the US until they have gotten the jab, while American drivers are currently not allowed into Canada unless they produce a certificate proving that they have been inoculated.

The policy comes in stark contrast to that of the nation's neighbor the south, with American drivers returning home to the US not required to test and quarantine.

During the address, Trudeau conceded that he understood the frustrations of the Canadian people regarding the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic but asserted that some of the behavior seen at the recent protests in the nation's capital, including swastikas, Confederate flags, and the desecrating of memorials, was unacceptable.

'I want to be very clear, we are not intimidated by those who hurl insults and abuse at small business workers, and steal food from the homeless. We won't give in to those who fly racist flags. We won't cave to those who engage in vandalism or dishonor the memory of our veterans.'

He added: 'Freedom of expression, assembly, and association are cornerstones of democracy. But Nazi symbolism, racist imagery, and desecration of war memorials are not. It is an insult to memory and truth. Hate can never be the answer.'

Trudeau then called on the protesting truckers - and the thousands supporting them - to put a halt to their actions.

'There is no place in our country for threats, violence or hatred,' he asserted. 'So for those responsible for this behavior, it needs to stop. To anyone who joined the convoy and was rightly uncomfortable with the symbols of hatred and division on display, join with your fellow Canadians. Be courageous, and speak out. Do not stand for, or with, intolerance and hate.'

In his speech, Trudeau went on to slam conservative politicians from his country for supporting the truckers' protests, warning them to 'think long and hard about the consequences of your actions.'

After the address, the prime minister doubled down on his stance in a series of posts on social media.

Earlier that morning, after fleeing his home with his family Sunday as thousands of truckers descended on the Canadian capital to protest the country's vaccine mandate and COVID lockdowns, Trudeau revealed he had tested positive for COVID-19.

'This morning, I tested positive for COVID-19,' the woke politician wrote on social media that morning.

'I'm feeling fine – and I'll continue to work remotely this week while following public health guidelines. Everyone, please get vaccinated and get boosted.'

Trudeau, who is vaccinated and has received a booster, is currently self-isolating at an undisclosed location after fleeing with his family from their home in the Canadian city as protesters convened, a four full days after the politician found out he had been exposed to the virus.

'Last night, I learned that I have been exposed to COVID-19,' Trudeau wrote on Twitter Thursday morning.

'My rapid test result was negative. I am following @OttawaHealth rules and isolating for five days. I feel fine and will be working from home. Stay safe, everyone – and please get vaccinated.'

The progressive prime minister provided no details on when or how he was exposed to the virus at the time, and his office has since not commented further on his positive test, which he said came early Monday morning.

The politico also did not divulge whether or not it was a rapid or PCR test that garnered the positive result, and has not yet updated the public as to his location.

Trudeau's revelation comes as the 'Freedom Convoy' of trucks - joined by thousands of demonstrators - brought Ottawa to a virtual standstill for a third day on Monday, as they protested the prime minister's vaccine mandates, forcing the prime minister to flee the city with his family due to 'security concerns.'

The decision to move the prime minister Saturday came after the sergeant-at-arms of the Canadian Parliament warned that protesters might show up at the homes of politicians, CBC reported.

The protesting truckers say there is no 'end date' in sight and plan to stay in the capital 'for as long as it takes' and until the Canadian government flips and withdraws its policy on vaccine mandates.

The chaos clogged the capital's downtown near parliament throughout the weekend and brought criticism from officials, including Ottawa's mayor who said residents were 'prisoners in their own home.'

But the demonstrators say they intend to stay and that their aim is to 'create chaos' and a 'logistics nightmare' for Trudeau's government.

'Right now, yeah, it's really cold, but we hang in there, the days are going to get longer and we take this block party and put it into overdrive,' BJ Dichter, one of the organizers of the Freedom Convoy, said at a press conference. 'We're in this one for the long haul. We don't have a time limit.'