ABC News staffers are furious at the network for not firing Whoopi Goldberg after she claimed on Monday that the Holocaust wasn't about race, with some accusing the network of having an anti-Semitic 'blind spot'.

Whoopi, 66, made the controversial comments on The View on Monday.

She referred to Jews and Nazis as 'two groups of white people' and said that because they were both white, it was about 'inhumanity' and not race'.

Her remarks sparked immediate international backlash with everyone from the Israeli Consular General in New York to the Auschwitz Memorial and Antidefamation League taking offense.

ABC has refused to comment on the scandal.

Whoopi posted an apology on Twitter last night saying the Holocaust was about 'both' race and inhumanity.

She said 'I stand corrected' and apologized, but then went on Colbert where she doubled down on her earlier comments.

Ahead of The View's show on Tuesday, a senior ABC News source told DailyMail.com that staff are stunned by the network's soft touch on her remarks, especially when it was so quick to fire Roseanne Barr over racist comments towards Valerie Jarrett.

‘There is a blind spot on The View when it comes to anti-Semitism. It is never a big enough hate crime for them.

'These comments are absolutely abhorrent and outrageous and it’s time Disney and ABC grew a pair and fired her,' the source said.

'Disney took swift action and fired Roseanne Barr when she posted the awful tweet about Valerie Jarrett, yet Whoopi made her vile comments on ABC’s air and they do nothing about it? Where is the leadership from within Disney? Peter Rice needs to step up and do his job and fire Whoopi.

‘How is this appropriate at all? What message do we send as a company? Why is there one rule for Whoopi Goldberg – who gets a pass on everything and another rule for everyone else?' said the source.

They added that the comment on Monday was only the latest in a string of inflammatory claims made by Whoopi, who previously defended Bill Cosby on the show.

'We were all outraged when Whoopi was defending Bill Cosby and ABC had to bring [legal analyst] Dan Abrams on the show to help her understand that her views surrounding Cosby were extremely problematic. This was after fifty women, FIFTY, had come forward with serious allegations about him.'

'People are livid within the news division as it completely undermines our credibility.'

The source also alleged that former host Meghan McCain previously pitched the victim of a Jewish hate crime as a guest on the show but that she was told to conduct the interview for online only.

Among those who fumed over Goldberg being allowed to stay on the show was Piers Morgan.

'Sharon Osbourne was fired from The Talk for defending me against a fake charge of racism. Whoopi Goldberg said on The View yesterday that the Holocaust ‘wasn’t about race’, which for Jewish people is about as racist a comment as anyone could make.

'Bet she doesn’t lose her job,' he said.

Osborne was fired from The Talk, a CBS show, for defending Morgan against allegations he was racist because he did not believe everything the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, said.

Others have compared Whoopi's situation to that of Joe Rogan, the Spotify podcast host who was admonished by musicians because he hosted anti-vax opinions on his show.

Spotify is standing by him and adding a content advisory warning to his shows, ignoring the demands of musicians like Joni Mitchell and Neil Young who threatened to pull their music off the streaming site because they disagreed with Rogan.

Rogan has never disclosed his vaccination status. It's unclear if he is pro or against it but the very fact he was giving a platform to the topic of anti-vaxxing was enough, they said, to constitute disinformation.

Whoopi is expected to return to The View at 11am Tuesday.

Her co-hosts have not yet publicly commented on her remarks.