The White House has quietly cancelled Vice President Pence’s farewell visit to Israel.

The farewell tour was scheduled to begin on January 6 after Congress counts the Electoral Votes.

However, it has now been confirmed that the farewell visit is canceled.

Does the White House know something that we don’t know?

This is yet another move that has caught the attention of eagle-eyed observers.

The Trump administration has been extremely nice with Israel.

In fact, we’ve been their closest ally.

So why did they suddenly cancel Pence’s farewell visit?

Could be because they’re not planning to say goodbye?

As in… four more years?

Immediately after Congress certified the votes, Pence was scheduled to travel to Israel.

That is now canceled.

Instead of a multi-day visit all over Israel, Pence will be staying in D.C.

The Times of Israel was one of the first news outlets to break the story:

A planned visit to Israel by US Vice President Mike Pence was called off less than two weeks before he was due to arrive, the US Embassy confirmed Wednesday. No reason was given for the cancellation, which was first reported by the Ynet news site. Pence was reportedly scheduled to make a number of stops on a final world trip before leaving office on January 20. Earlier this month, Politico reported that the vice president planned to take off on January 6 — the same day the US Congress is scheduled to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory — visiting a number of countries, including Israel from January 10 to 13. Earlier this month, Regional Cooperation Minister Ofir Akunis, a member of Netanyahu’s Likud party, confirmed the visit, saying, “Pence is planning on visiting Israel. I don’t want to commit to the dates. It’s likely that during the trip itself there will be a declaration of normalization” with another Muslim country. A US Embassy spokesperson confirmed to The Times of Israel on Wednesday that the vice president would not be coming to Israel. In its report, Politico said the trip abroad appeared to be an effort by Pence to avoid the ire of US President Donald Trump and his supporters over the vice president’s expected validation of the 2020 election results in his capacity as president of the US Senate. The president and his allies have claimed without basis that the election was stolen from him. “I suspect the timing is anything but coincidental,” a Pence ally told Politico. The news outlet cited a government document showing Pence was set to visit Bahrain, Israel and Poland, but said planning was tentative and that more destinations could be added.

The announcement comes just days after the White House sent out a memo to staffers telling them to STOP packing.

That memo caught the attention of many people.

Now… Pence’s farewell tour has been canceled without even a replacement date!

Vice President Mike Pence will not visit Israel in early January, according to the U.S. Embassy. A spokesperson for the U.S. Embassy confirmed the development to The Times of Israel on Wednesday, but the spokesperson did not clarify the exact date schedule. The Epoch Times has also reached out to the embassy and Pence’s office for comment. In December, Regional Cooperation Minister Ofir Akunis, who is a member of the Likud party, had previously confirmed Pence’s visit. “Pence is planning on visiting Israel. I don’t want to commit to the dates. It’s likely that during the trip itself there will be a declaration of normalization” with another Muslim country, Akunis told the paper days earlier. Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) on Wednesday announced that he would be joining a growing number of House GOP lawmakers in challenging the Electoral College votes on Jan. 6—becoming the first senator to do so. The move would trigger a 2-hour debate before both chambers of Congress vote on a states’ electoral votes. Both a House representative and a Senator are required to challenge the electoral vote. “I cannot vote to certify the electoral college results on Jan. 6 without raising the fact that some states, particularly Pennsylvania, failed to follow their own state election laws,” Hawley wrote in a statement on Dec. 30. “And I cannot vote to certify without pointing out the unprecedented effort of mega-corporations, including Facebook and Twitter, to interfere in this election, in support of Joe Biden,” he added.

Is this merely coincidence?

Or is this a sign of things to come?

NATIONAL POLL: Should Ilhan Omar Be IMPEACHED and Removed From Office?

We want to hear your thoughts in the comments!

January 6, 2021 will be here before you know it.

Have you called your U.S. Representatives and Senators to let them know how you feel?!

We need to stand united behind President Trump for a free, fair, and transparent election!