The have-a-go hero driver who mowed down and killed a knifeman while he was stabbing to death a mother-of-two will face no further action, police revealed today one week after arresting him on suspicion of murder.

Yasmin Wafah Chkaifi, 43, died after the 'terrifying' attack by ex-husband Leon Mccaskie, 41, despite the efforts of the motorist - 'Abraham' - who intervened by ploughing into him in Maida Vale, West London, on January 24.Friends of the 26-year-old driver, a Chechen electrician who was detained by the Metropolitan Police after he drove his Renault Clio into Mccaskie to try to stop the carnage, said he has been 'living a nightmare' ever since.

More than 75,000 people signed a petition calling for him not to face criminal charges – and relatives and friends of Miss Chkaifi had called for the police probe to be dropped and for Abraham to be honoured for his bravery.

Today, Scotland Yard confirmed the driver will 'face no further police action' after officers studied CCTV footage, spoke to witnesses and detectives and looked at the legal position on 'self-defence and defence of another'.

Abraham's lawyer Mohammed Akunjee tweeted today: 'Good news - the Met Police have confirmed that there will be no further action with respect to our client 'Abraham' concerning his arrest under suspicion of murder.'

Detective Chief Inspector Neil Rawlinson of the Metropolitan Police's Specialist Crime Command, who has led the investigation, said today: 'Having reviewed the CCTV evidence and taken statements of numerous members of the public and attending officers, as well as reviewing the legal position regarding self-defence and defence of another, a decision has been taken that the driver of the car, a 26-year-old man will face no further police action.

'He is considered a vital witness to our investigation and will be offered support from professionals to help him come to terms with the terrifying situation he was confronted with. It is vitally important that when a person dies there is a thorough investigation into all of the circumstances and this has taken place. Such decisions must be thoroughly examined and while this process takes time this has been a priority for my team.

'The man's legal advisors have been informed of this decision. Inquests have opened in relation to both deaths and my team will continue to work to provide evidence for the coroner. We continue to appeal for witnesses to this incident who have yet to speak to police to come forward and do so.'

Abraham had said last week he did 'not see why I as the person who tried to assist in the defence of other human beings remain arrested and on bail under suspicion of murder' and urged police to instead treat him as a witness.

It also emerged after the attack that McCaskie had been due in court on January 27 for breaching a stalking order taken out to protect Miss Chkaifi, which barred him from contacting her. The stabbing took place nearly three weeks after a warrant without bail had been issued when McCaskie failed to appear in court on January 4.

On January 27, in a statement issued on Twitter both in writing and in a video through Mr Akunjee, Abraham said: 'I witnessed a man repeatedly stabbing a defenceless woman on the pavement a short distance in front of my car.