What have we told you over and over again?

There is “specific evidence” that has never-before-been seen by the public.

How do we know this?

Campaign adviser Jason Miller has gone on the record and confirmed that there is “specific evidence” of election fraud that Team Trump is sitting on.

Why haven’t they revealed it to the public?

Why haven’t they brought it to the media?

Why isn’t it in any Court filings?

This would be brilliant!

Hopefully the Congressional hearings are televised.

If you’ve been following WeLoveTrump, you know that the evidence of voter fraud is overwhelming.

But most people don’t follow the news after election day.

And the media has been working overtime to cover it up.

But the Trump Team wants to present it on a NATIONAL STAGE.

And it includes MORE evidence that we haven’t seen before!

Below, the Epoch Times confirms that the evidence will “differ” from what we’ve seen in previous weeks, though some of it will be re-hashed for people who haven’t been following the news:

President Donald Trump’s campaign adviser said the team is aiming to present evidence during a potential congressional debate on Jan. 6 if lawmakers in the House and Senate object to states’ Electoral College votes. As of Wednesday, it appears that at least one member of the Senate, Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), and a number of House lawmakers will object to the electoral votes during the Joint Session of Congress. Hawley announced he would object to the electoral vote, pointing to previous Democratic efforts to do so during the 2004 and 2016 presidential elections. After the objection, an hours-long debate will occur. Miller said that evidence could be presented in Congress, which would differ from what the Trump campaign presented in courts over the past several weeks. “We will have a chance in front of the American people, next week to present these cases, all these evidences of fraud,” Miller told Newsmax, pointing to a lawsuit filed by Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) against Vice President Mike Pence earlier this week to prevent him from confirming Joe Biden’s electoral victory. Miller told the outlet that the 1887 Electoral Count Act allows the vice president, who is the president of the Senate, to preside over the Joint Session of Congress. Then, Miller told Newsmax that he hopes at least one senator and representative join together to object to the Electoral College vote, allowing for two hours of debate. Should that happen, Miller said President Donald Trump’s team is seeking to present alleged evidence of voter fraud or irregularities in the Nov. 3 election, including law changes regarding mail-in ballots in Wisconsin, “suitcases of ballots” in Georgia being wheeled out late at night on Nov. 3 in Atlanta’s State Farm Center, and being blocked in Arizona and Michigan from inspecting voting systems, alleging that ballots were counted several times. “These are the specific types of evidence we want to present to the American people on the national stage and not allow local politicians to sweep it under the rug,” Miller said. Weeks ago, Trump’s team led by Rudy Giuliani presented a surveillance video from the State Farm Center that showed suitcase-like boxes being wheeled from under a table. It came after election officials allegedly told other workers and poll observers that counting was done for the night.

Jason Miller teased the “specific evidence” himself by posting about it on Twitter!

If there is indeed “specific evidence” that the Trump campaign hasn’t yet made public, then could that be why President Trump seems more confident than ever?

We don’t know about you, but he doesn’t look worried at all about January 20th!

Specific examples of voter fraud will be presented Jan. 6 if debate is held on the 2020 election results, according to Trump campaign senior adviser Jason Miller on Newsmax TV. Electoral College ballots are scheduled to be certified during a joint session of Congress on Jan. 6. Miller said evidence presented there would be different than that in the legal battles President Donald Trump’s campaign has fought in the courts. “Any of the [court] dismissals have been on process,” Miller told Carl Higbie on Tuesday’s “Greg Kelly Reports.” “So, let’s talk about Wisconsin where Mayor [Rudy] Giuliani is leading the legal team, actually filed a Supreme Court case this afternoon that said that we’ve identified over 50,000 ballots in the state of Wisconsin that were cast unconstitutionally.” The Trump’s campaign fight in Wisconsin has centered on ballots that were cast by people who should not have been allowed to vote. “Article II of the Constitution makes it very clear, the state legislatures, and state legislatures alone, set up the voting systems for each state, the codes and the way they are conducted,” Miler said. “And what we have here is we have over 20,000 ballots that were cast without actually having a application on file, the mail ballots. Wisconsin’s very clear, very specific you got to have an application on file.” Miller said Wisconsin also allowed ballot harvesting and “6,000 or so of these ballots that we believe were just completely null and void from people who never should have been able to cast them.” He then cited “suitcases of ballots” found in Georgia, the campaign’s inability to “inspect the machines” in Arizona, and Michigan where “they’re running through ballots multiple times.” “These are the specific types of evidence we want to present to the American people on the national stage and not allow local politicians to sweep it under the rug,” Miller said. A group of congressional Republicans led by Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Texas, are suing Vice President Mike Pence to prevent him from confirming Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 presidential election. Miller said the 1887 Electoral Count Act designates the vice president as the official to preside over the meeting. He then hopes one representative and one senator join together to objecting to the Electoral College vote, allowing two hours of debate.

NATIONAL POLL: Should President Trump Fire All Obama Holdovers? YES or NO

As President Trump said, January 6 “will be wild!”

Are you going to be there?

For those of you who can’t attend, WeLoveTrump will be covering the January 6 event with wall-to-wall coverage.

Be sure to keep checking in for the latest news!