The driver of a Dodge Challenger that sped through a red light at 100mph and struck a minivan, wiping out an entire family of seven people - including four children - was a career criminal and had recently pleaded guilty to speeding charges.

The driver of the Challenger, Gary Dean Robinson, 59, of North Las Vegas, and his passenger Tanaga Ravel Miller, 46, were among the dead at the scene of the crash in North Las Vegas on Saturday.

In December, Robinson was charged with speeding when he was traveling up to 10mph over the limit, according to court records.

He was scheduled to be in Las Vegas Municipal Court on Monday for sentencing on the speeding ticket after pleading guilty.

His past reveals the life of a career criminal, including charges of assault with a deadly weapon, domestic violence, drug offenses, battery - and several speeding tickets that resulted in his license having been suspended.

Robinson's life of crime ended when his reckless driving on Saturday also killed a family-of-seven after their minivan was struck in the devastating six-car crash.

But attention has now turned to the man who caused the carnage.

Robinson had an extensive criminal history, according to court records dating to 1998, when he was cited for drug possession and assault.

In 2004, Robinson was busted for selling cocaine to an undercover Las Vegas Metropolitan Police detective.

Court documents show he pleaded guilty to possession, but violated the conditions of his probation and was sent to jail for 30 days in 2007.

Robinson also pleaded guilty to battery in a domestic violence case in 2004.

Four years later, in November 2008, Robinson got into a fight with bailiffs at drug court after Judge Joe Bonaventure ordered him to be sent to jail for two days.

Robinson rushed towards the judge's bench with bailiffs Tazing him three times as he tried to flee the courtroom.

In 2008, Robinson pleaded guilty to having an open container and driving with a revoked or suspended license on the Las Vegas Strip.

And in 2017, he was charged with speeding when he had been going 20mph over the limit.

On Sunday, the Clark County Coroners Office identified the remains from a burnt out Toyota Sienna as Fernando Yeshua Mejia, 5; Adrian Zacarias, 10; Lluvia Daylenn Zacarias, 13; Bryan Axel Zacarias, 15; Gabriel Mejia-Barrera, 23; David Mejia-Barrera, 25; and Jose Zacarias Caldera, 35.

Erlinda Zacarias wrote in a GoFundMe that the victims include her four children, two stepchildren and a brother.

'On January 29 at 3 pm there was an accident at the intersection of Cheyenne and Commerce in North Las Vegas, speeding was a factor there was 6 cars involved. Out of those 6 cars 9 people lost their lives. I lost all my family, my kids 7 out of those lives lost.

'There are no words to describe my pain and suffering that i will not be able to hug my children again, my brother and 2 stepsons lost their lives also. Me and my husband are in so much pain we are asking you for help with our heart in out hands anything would be helpful thank you,' Erlinda wrote.

Her husband, Pablo Zacarias Ramirez, also confirmed to the Las Vegas Review-Journal that the four minors in the minivan were his children.

'Out of those lives lost there are no words to describe my pain and suffering,' Erlinda wrote in the online fundraiser, which had already garnered more than $230,000 for the family's funeral expenses as of Tuesday morning.

'I never thought this was going to happen to me,' said Zacarias said to KNTV. 'My family is gone. All of them were together.'

Zacarias said that she spoke with her daughter just moments before the collision.

'She said, 'Mom, I'm on my way to you.: I said, 'I'll be waiting here for you.' They never showed up,' she said. 'I start calling their phones — they don't answer.

'I say to everybody: thank you. Because this loss is a big loss, and I don't have no ways to take care of this, but thank you for helping us.'

'Do a service for them. That's all I can do because there's nothing else I can do,' Zacarias said.

Teens Nick Gomez and Erik Ramos brought candles and a teddy bear to the crash site on Sunday afternoon, saying Bryan Zacarias was a friend of theirs.

'He knew everybody,' another friend Alexis Lopez said. 'He was cool with everybody.'

'Right now, it's still kind of like, it's not believable,' classmate Mikey Rodriguez said. 'But I know once we're at school tomorrow it's gonna hit, because he's not gonna be there. Right now, I'm still in shock.'

The fence to a nearby vacant lot had been partially destroyed by the crash. A few candles had been placed under a sign across from the intersection as part of a makeshift memorial.

Most of the debris had been cleared from the area, as cars passed through the intersection in both directions.

The devastating crash occurred when Robinson sped through a red light near the intersection of Commerce Street and Cheyenne Avenue in North Las Vegas at around 3pm on January 29, striking the Zacarias' minivan.

Their Sienna then collided with a white Ford Fusion, driven by a 31-year-old woman who remained in critical condition Sunday night, according to KVVU.

Those three vehicles were then pushed north into the westbound lanes of Cheyenne, where they struck an additional three vehicles, including a tan Chevrolet Malibu, a white Hyundai Tucson, and a white Mercedes Benz SUV.

Fifteen people were involved in the crash, and at least four people sustained injuries.

On Sunday, friends and family members gathered at a vacant lot at the intersection where many of the vehicles were pushed in the deadly crash to pay tribute to those who lost their lives.

Teenagers Nick Gomes and Erik Ramos brought candles and a teddy bear to the crash site on Sunday afternoon saying Bryan was a friend, as classmates at Rancho High School described him to the Review-Journal as a 'funny, outgoing person' who was 'scandalous' but in a good way.

'He knew everybody,' Alexis Lopez said. 'He was cool with everybody.'

North Las Vegas Police are now calling the crash the deadliest wreck on valley roads in recent history.

'We have not seen a mass casualty traffic collision like this before,' North Las Vegas Police spokesman Alexander Cuevas said at a news briefing at the weekend.

'Please make this a safer community by slowing down. Pay attention to speed limits,' he added.

'A heartfelt condolences to the families and everyone affected by this horrific incident,' acting North Las Vegas Police Chief Jacqueline Gravatt said. 'It affects us as a community, as a valley and as a nation as a whole.'

North Las Vegas Mayor John Lee addressed reporters outside City Hall: 'We had an unprecedented loss of life yesterday in our community,' he said. 'We really care when something happens in the community, and this pulls the heart right out of it.'

The Governor of Nevada, Steve Sisolak tweeted: 'Our hearts ache for the families & loved ones of the 9 people killed in this senseless act - Kathy & I will be keeping them in our hearts & prayers during this very difficult time.'

North Las Vegas Councilwoman Pamela Goynes-Brown also said: 'Our thoughts and prayers are with the families who are experiencing a tremendous and unnecessary loss due to a careless and senseless act.'

'At the end of the day, this was 100 percent avoidable and preventable,' said Clark County Commissioner William McCurdy II who visited the crash scene.

'That is unacceptable. That's an unreasonable expectation for us to be able to go out and be about our business and not make it home. It could've been anybody. It could've been me, myself, because I actually don't live too far from here. It's very frustrating.'

'My thoughts are with the families & loved ones of the 9 people killed in this senseless and preventable tragedy,' Democratic Senator Jacky Rosen wrote. 'I urge all drivers to please slow down and be aware of their surroundings. We all have a responsibility to be safe and cautious on the roads.'

'My heart goes out to the families of the nine victims of this tragic crash' Democratic Senator Catherine Cortez Masto wrote. 'Paul and I are thinking of you. Please slow down on the roads and help us keep our community safe.'

'Such a horrible, preventable accident,' Attorney General Aaron Ford wrote. 'Praying for the families of those lost. Slow down, everyone. Please.'

Early indications showed that the traffic light had been on red for some time when Robinson sped through.

Clark County Office of Traffic Safety Director Andrew Bennett noted that there were no other traffic lights in the vicinity for about half a mile.

At this time, it is not suspected that the driver of the Dodge was impaired from drugs or alcohol, according to police.

Robinson had an extensive criminal history dating back to 1998 out of Las Vegas including assault with a deadly weapon, possession of cocaine, disorderly conduct and speeding.

The devastating crash comes amid an uptick in traffic accidents in Sin City.

Last year, Nevada reported more than 380 fatalities caused by traffic accidents, making it the deadliest year on the state's roads in 14 years.

And in Clark County, the Review-Journal reports, there was a year-on-year increase of 22 percent, with 235 deaths. About 8 percent of all cases investigated by the county coroner's office were from fatal crashes.

'So many people have moved here that our roads are crowded and sadly the drivers are being reckless and irresponsible,' Dina Lynn, who posted a tribute to the Zacarias family online, told DailyMail.com.

'We all need to be aware,' she said. 'I myself am always looking out for others as I do live here in my community and I don't take life for granted.

'It's my hope that others will remember that their choices affect us all including driving irresponsibly.'

Saturday's crash is now being investigated by the National Transportation Safety Board as well as local authorities.