Republican Josh Hawley became the first U.S. Senator who publicly pledged to challenge the election results on January 6, 2021.

It takes just 1 House Representative and 1 Senator to initiate the Electoral Count Act.

Together, they can challenge the slate of electors from any state.

This is a Constitutional process that has happened before.

Yet when Josh Hawley announced his position, Walmart attacked him.

They responded to his tweet with:

Don’t they know that millions of Trump supporters vote in their stores?

Since when did it become a good idea to attack your customers?

Of course, the Tweet has since been deleted.

But hundreds of social media users already grabbed screenshots.

The tweet by Walmart got the attention of Senator Josh Hawley himself. Thanks ⁦@Walmart for your insulting condescension. Now that you’ve insulted 75 million Americans, will you at least apologize for using slave labor? We don’t know about you, but to us, that is a body slam response! Walmart claimed that the tweet was posted by accident. The tweet published earlier was mistakenly posted by a member of our social media team. We deleted the post and have no intention of commenting on the subject of certifying the electoral college. We apologize to Senator Hawley for this error and any confusion about our position. Well, the “mistake” has gotten the attention of the Deplorables. Millions of Trump voters are ANGRY at Walmart for the tweet. The Blaze has more details: Walmart has issued a public apology to Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) after the company’s Twitter account criticized the senator for announcing he will object during the Electoral College certification, calling him a “#soreloser.” Hawley on Wednesday became the first U.S. senator to declare his intention to object to the Electoral College certification on Jan. 6. “Millions of voters concerned about election integrity deserve to be heard. I will object on January 6 on their behalf,” Hawley tweeted. In response, the verified corporate Twitter account for Walmart wrote, “Go ahead. Get your 2 hour debate. #soreloser.” That tweet has since been deleted, but not before Hawley captured a screenshot and replied back. “Thanks ⁦@Walmart⁩ for your insulting condescension. Now that you’ve insulted 75 million Americans, will you at least apologize for using slave labor?” Hawley asked. In a follow-up tweet, he added: “Or maybe you’d like to apologize for the pathetic wages you pay your workers as you drive mom and pop stores out of business.” Walmart did issue an apology for the tweet but not for the things Hawley accused the company of doing. “The tweet was mistakenly posted by a member of our social media team who intended to publish this comment to their personal account,” Walmart senior manager Casey Staheli said in a statement to the Washington Examiner. “We have removed the post and have no intention of commenting on the subject of certifying the electoral college. We apologize to Senator Hawley for this error and any confusion about our position.” In just a few hours, the hashtag #BoycottWalmart began trending on Twitter.

The calls to boycott grew so loud that international news organizations are now covering the protests.

Calls to boycott Walmart grew on Wednesday after a member of its social media team went rogue and trolled a powerful Republican senator for saying he would challenge President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. The official Twitter account of the world’s largest retailer trolled Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri after he became the first member of the upper chamber to voice his support for contesting the electoral college vote. Hawley, the junior senator from Missouri who was elected in 2018, said that ‘some states, particularly Pennsylvania, failed to follow their own state election laws.’ ‘At the very least, Congress should investigate,’ he said in a statement. Within hours of the dust-up, the #BoycottWalmart hashtag was trending on Twitter as angry supporters of President Trump cited the company’s longstanding ties to China. One Twitter user slammed Walmart for its ‘cheap Chinese products’ and blamed it for ‘Main Street being murdered because Big Business is in bed with China not Americans.’ Trump opponents, meanwhile, claimed that Republicans have long ignored Walmart’s controversial business practices until its Twitter account took aim at Hawley. ‘The culture that hates “cancel culture” has #BoycottWalmart trending because their feefees are hurt,’ tweeted one Twitter user. Next Wednesday, Vice President Mike Pence will preside over a meeting of Congress when the results of the Electoral College vote are read and tallied. It’s generally a formality, but as Hawley pointed out, Democrats did object to certain states’ vote counts, including during the 2016 and 2004 races. Pence refused to sign on to the plan that would upend Congress certifying the election for Biden. NATIONAL POLL: Should Obama Be Arrested and Tried For Treason? January 6, 2021 is widely seen as the last chance President Trump has to prove and secure his victory. However, Constitutional experts note that the only date in the entire Constitution is January 20th at noon.