“I would welcome the appointment of a Black female to the court,” the Republican senator told George Stephanopoulos on Sunday. “I believe that diversity benefits the Supreme Court. But the way that the president has handled this nomination has been clumsy at best. It adds to the further perception that the court is a political institution like Congress when it is not supposed to be,” Collins added. “So, I certainly am open to whomever he decides to nominate. My job as a senator is to evaluate the qualifications of that person under the advice and consent role.”

On the issue of politicization, Stephanopoulos pressed: “Isn’t this process politicized no matter what you do? I mean, look at what happened after the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Justice Barrett pushed through in record time, one of the reasons I suppose you voted against her.”

“Actually, the reason I voted against Amy Coney Barrett was that her nomination and the vacancy occurred too close to the election, the presidential election,” Collins said.

This time around, Biden is possibly eyeing Judge Ketanji Jackson for a seat on the Supreme Court. Collins was one of three Senate Republicans who approved her confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals.

Stephanopoulos asked Collins if she could support Trump if he decides to run again for president in 2024.

“President Trump is out on the campaign trail. He was out in Texas last night suggesting he may pardon those — if he were elected in 2024 — those who were part of January 6th. Given that, can you imagine any circumstances where you could support his election in 2024?” Stephanopoulos asked.

“Well, we’re a long ways from 2024. But let me say this, I do not think the president should have made — that President Trump should have made that pledge to do pardons,” Collins said. “We should let the judicial process proceed.” Stephanopoulos pressed again: “It was. And you voted to convict President Trump as well. Why can’t you rule out supporting him in 2024?”

“Well, certainly it’s not likely given the many other qualified candidates that we have that have expressed interest in running,” Collins answered, dodging the question again. “So it’s very unlikely.”