A Republican candidate for Michigan governor said that rape victims shouldn't get abortions because 'they don't know if that baby inside of them could be the next president.'

Garrett Soldano, a father of two boys and candidate for Michigan governor, said on April Moss' podcast Face The Facts: 'We must focus on...defending the DNA when it's created.

'How about we inspire women in the culture to let them understand and know how heroic they are, and how unbelievable they are, that God put them in this moment. They don't know if that baby inside of them could be the next president, maybe the next person who changes humanity, may get us out of the situation in the future.'

Soldano, from Kalamazoo, cited a 'great personal story' of a friend, who was adopted on a quest to find his birth family, found out that his mother was a gang-rape victim. Soldano claimed the unidentified woman was 'gang-raped in a subway train station by five guys.'

'It kind of tore out his heart when he found that out,' the Christian governor candidate said. 'But then he started to really appreciate and understand what his birth mother went through, that she had the courage to deliver him.

'And since he has been delivered, he has helped thousands of people be better versions of themselves.'

Soldano is facing massive backlash for his controversial comments, with many slamming the chiropractor-turned-wannabe-politician as 'disgusting' and 'furthering [the] pain and suffering' of rape victims.

Actress and activist Patricia Arquette shot back Soldano, writing on Twitter: 'The state should no compel victims of sexual violence to endure further pain and suffering. The state should not compound a rapist's impact on the victim. Let victims decide for themselves.'

Democratic Michigan Senator Erika Geiss called his comments 'disgusting' and said: 'We should be inspiring women who’ve been raped to press charges [and] we should have a system that takes them seriously. We should have a world where men don’t think they’re entitled to women’s bodies. We should have a world where [people] respect #ReproRights.'

Another Michigan Senator Dayna Polehanki also fired back at the governor-hopefully, writing: 'We are in 'Protect the DNA of Rapist' phase of misogyny.'

Kaili Joy Gray, who used to work for Planned Parenthood Action and the American Independent, wrote: 'Awwwww. "Ladies should shut up and be grateful for their rape babies" is so 2012. How quaint.'

This isn't Soldano first round of controversy. Two years ago, a Change.org campaign to revoke his chiropractic license started circulating after he reportedly spread 'COVID-19 misinformation.'

'Chiropractor Garret Soldano has created a Covid-19 misinformation and anti-social distancing group titled “Michiganders against excessive quarantine,"' wrote Brad C, from Detroit, wrote on the petition. 'This group thrives on conspiracy theory, supports disregard of social distancing orders, and removes members that challenge their attempts to nullify the importance of social distancing if the fight against Covid-19.

'In promoting of these ideals Garrett Soldano has demonstrated complete disregard for the health and safety of Michigan citizens.

'There is no room in this fight for licensed medical professionals to be misleading our population while instigating lawlessness.'

The petition has been signed almost 1,500 times and is still actively being gaining more signatures.

Soldano responded via Facebook in September 2021, writing: 'You know you are over the target when you see this circulating again. The radical left is circulating this petition against to try to take away my license as a Doctor of Chiropractic. Stand with my family and me as we inspire positive change in our beloved state.'

He was later banned from YouTube. Many believe he was banned for spreading misinformation. The company said in an email to Soldano that his channel had 'severe or repeated violations' of the community guidelines. The company's guidelines do specify that content cannot 'contradict local health authorities,' according to Newsweek.

'As the weeks went on in this pandemic, all I heard were crickets,' he told Moss in January. 'As I was sitting in the background, I said: "Hey, I just can't take it anymore, I need to get something off my chest," so that's why I initially got up and started this movement,' he said about the Facebook group.

Soldano claimed the Facebook group had reached nearly 400,000 members before the social media platform removed it.

'[It was] to push back against these lockdowns and unconstitutional mandates. And I would have never guessed in a million years that led to this point in time with me running for governor, but that's where it is.'

The lockdown economic downturn is a part of Soldano's campaign.

He wrote on his website: 'Governor Whitmer’s unconstitutional executive orders have impacted Garrett personally. Like thousands of small business owners across Michigan, he was forced to navigate excessive restrictions, regulations, and job-killing lockdowns that defied science and common sense.

He told Moss that 'mandates will never be enforced on my watch.'

'We have to get through people's minds right now that there is not a silver bullet with dealing with this pandemic. It's time to bring some common sense into the equation,' he told Moss. 'We have to get rid of this one-sized-fits-all approach to deal with this pandemic...and guess what else deserves a seat at the table? Natural immunity.'

The self-proclaimed 'family man' also spoke to Moss about critical race theory being taught in schools, claiming: 'CRT is absolute hot garbage.

'You're teaching our kids segregation, and the bad part, by actually trying to segregate them, [is] making them feel guilty for the race or the color of their skin.'

He also said teacher's unions need to 'get back to basics' of science, math, and history and leave politics out of it.

'I'm talking all history,' he said. 'Not just the good of America, but go ahead and teach the bad. As Americans, we realize that there are scars in our past. There are scars that we have done to the Native Americans, the Civil Rights, the Jim Crow line, slavery - we have some deep, horrible scars in America, however, we don't erase them, we teach them, we talk about it. Why? So those scars don't get repeated.

'That's why it is so important for the teachers just to do that, to teach the right history, but my child should never ever know your political beliefs,' he said. 'If we can't teach God in school, then you have no right to push your political beliefs on my child.'