North Carolina residents have been forced to evacuate their homes after a blaze broke out at a fertilizer plant in Winston-Salem Monday night.

Firefighters believe there is potential for an explosion of ammonium nitrate and have ordered residents living within a one-mile radius of the Weaver Fertilizer Plant on North Cherry Street to evacuate, WGHP reported.

Winston-Salem Fire Chief Try Mayo told the TV station crews have 'abandoned' the fire-fighting operation due to the large volume on ammonium nitrate at the facility.

Mayo said crews were not able to flow enough water volume to the factory to be 'reasonably certain' they could keep the facility cool enough to prevent a detonation.

The factory has collapsed and authorities are restricting access to the building. No injuries have been reported and the cause of the fire remains unknown.

Firefighters were called to the factory around 7pm Monday night.

The blaze was visible for miles, sending large clouds of black smoke into the night sky. Popping noises could be heard throughout the community, according to the Winston-Salem Journal.

Bystanders watched from nearby parking lots as the flames consumed the plant. However, they were ultimately instructed by police and firefighters to leave the area.

Authorities have closed off the factory with yellow police tape and have shut down the 4400 block of Cherry Street, from North Point Boulevard to Indiana Avenue. Drivers have also been asked to avoid the area.

The calls for evacuations went out around 8:30pm despite the fire appearing to be considerably diminished. Officials were utilizing a reverse-911 procedure to notify residents of the need to flee.

'We need people to get outside of that one-mile radius,' Ed McNeal, Marketing Communications official for the city of Winston-Salem, said in a social media update.

Wake Forest University, located less than two miles from the plant, told WFMY that some students living in off-campus housing near the plant have been told to evacuate.

The impacted areas includes off-campus housing north of Polo Road between Cherry Street and Long Drive.

Those living on campus have not be ordered to evacuate.

School leaders have also invited impacted students to bring a sleeping bag, pillow and/or blanket to the university to shelter in designated areas of campus as temperatures hovered near freezing.

Workers at nearby WestRock Co., a paper and packaging company, were also forced to evacuate their workplace.

WestRock employee Jeff Luman told the newspaper he knew something was wrong when he could smell the smoke coming from the fertilizer plant next door.

'I saw an orange glow, and that is all I needed,' he said.

Meanwhile, emergency responders are concerned about the fumes being released by the blaze, as well as the potential for an explosion.

Although ammonium nitrate, which is one of the world's most common fertilizers, isn't flammable itself, experts warn it is a main component in many types of explosives used in mining.

The chemical compound can cause a blast when it is mixed with fuel oil and detonated by an explosive charge. Experts say oxygen must also be present for combustion to occur.

Ammonium nitrate was used by Timothy McVeigh in a terror attack that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995.

It can also decompose at high temperatures and create explosive gases such as nitrogen oxide and water vapor. Exposure to extreme heat, such as a fire, is also necessary for the rapid release of gases that can cause an explosion.

Weaver Company Inc., which utilizes the plant, was founded in Norfolk, Virginia in 1929. According to the company's website, the Winston-Salem plant was built in1939 and has been operational since January 1940.

The company specializes in its all-purpose plant food and specialty fertilizer, which is sold at Lowe's stores throughout the southeastern United States.