Donald Trump has $122 million cash on hand to start the midterm election cycle as he eyes another possible run at the White House in 2024.

The former president's political action committees announced the total after raising $51 million in the last half of 2021.

But Trump's number is down from the $82 million his various committees brought in together in the first six months of 2021.

Still his impressive campaign war chest puts Trump in a strong position to influence the Republican Party - both in the midterm elections and as a warning signal to any potential 2024 presidential candidates. His total is more than double the cash on hand of the Republican National Committee.

Money in leadership PACs cannot be used to support that official's own campaign, meaning Trump could not use the funds if he runs for president again in two years. But it does show Trump has a formidable fundraising machine he can kick into gear if he makes nother White House bid.

Taylor Budowich, a spokesman for Trump, indicated the team was looking beyond 2022.

'President Trump is incredibly well positioned to look beyond November as the need for his leadership has never been more important,' Budowich said in a statement.

The former president has vowed to play a role in the GOP primaries this cycle, specifically targeting those he has quarrels with - such as Rep. Lynne Cheney.

But, despite issuing nearly 100 endorsements, he is stockpiling his campaign cash, keeping most of his money in his pockets.

Trump's leadership PAC, called Save America, donated about $350,000 to 69 candidates and committees at the state and federal levels.

Trump said his PACs have only donated $1.35 million to 'to like-minded causes and endorsed candidates,' in a statement from his office on Monday.

Among the recipients of his cash: Herschel Walker, the former football star running for Senate in Georgia's Republican primary, and Harriet Hageman, who is running a primary challenge to Cheney in the Wyoming House race.

Federal filings also show $1 million of Trump's donations went to the nonprofit Conservative Partnership Institute, which is led several Trump allies, including his former chief of staff Mark Meadows and former Senator Jim DeMint.

Additionally, $60,000 was paid to former Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale's firm Parscale Strategy and more than $240,000 also went to legal spending.

Save America is the former president's main fundraising committee but is one of many he has established.

It employs about two dozen people and its most frequent expense is Facebook advertising, according to federal filings. Trump spent $1.3 million on Facebook ads. Although the social media website banned him it does allow his political arm to advertise.

The average donation Trump received between his committees was $31, with a total of 1,631,648 donations, according to a statement from his office on Monday.

Additionally, Trump's team says 98.6% of the donations were under $200 and came from small donors - which indicates the former president has a strong base to go back to for additional donations.

Trump, despite being banned from main stream social media, sends out a steady stream of fundraising pleas via email and text.

The former president has been back on the road in the past month - holding a rally in Phoenix two weeks ago and another in Conroe, Texas, on Saturday. More are expected in the weeks ahead.

He's stayed mum about his own political plans but has repeatedly hinted he'll make another run for the Oval Office.

Last week he quipped he will be the 47th president of the U.S. – suggesting not only that he'll run to retake the White House, but that he'll win.

He made the remark while playing at his Trump National golf course in Florida, in a video posted by Breaking911.

The former president can be seen on the first tee of his course as he prepares to hit a drive shot.

'You're so lucky to be one up,' says an unidentified man who has a thick eastern European accent and is off camera.

'We'll be lucky if we're up,' Trump jokes at first, sporting his trademark red Make America Great Again hat.

'First tee. Forty-fifth president of the United States,' says the man, providing a bit of play-by-play.

Trump, the 45th president, was succeeded by President Joe Biden, the 46th. Trump has repeatedly and falsely claimed he won the 2020 election.

Trump's quip about prevailing in 2024 comes as he faces an array of challenges – even as his successor confronts popularity in the low-40s while dealing with combatting the coronavirus, a stalled legislative agenda, and foreign policy challenges.

The House Jan. 6th Committee continues to demand testimony from key Trump allies and former White House officials as it probes the Capitol riot. New York Attorney General Letitia James is demanding testimony and documents from Trump and his adult children as she continues her civil probe. A prosecutor in Georgia has convened a grand jury in her probe of the election overturn effort.

Federal prosecutors have charged Oath Keepers with seditious conspiracy in their own January 6th probe, and a top DOJ official said Tuesday prosecutors were 'looking at' referrals regarding Trump backers who submitted fake vote certifications to the National Archives.