Last April Pope Francis held mass at a nearby church of the Holy Spirit in Sassia in the center of Rome.

During his homily, Red Francis told his flock that “sharing ownership is not communism but is pure Christianity.”

Of course, shared ownership is exactly the definition of communism.

Pope Francis left the Vatican this morning to celebrate Mass in the nearby church of the Holy Spirit in Sassia in the center of Rome where a group of prisoners and inmates were also present at the celebration as well as some so-called ”refugees” from the Middle East. So this was the ideal stage for a Communist/Globalist stunt by the Communist Pope. During the Mass Pope Francis commented on Acts 4:32 that says: “All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of their possessions was their own, but they shared everything they had.” In a statement that promotes Communism Bergoglio stated to a rather puzzled congregation that sharing ownership “is not communism, but it is pure Christianity.”

This past week Pope Francis told tax authorities taxation is a necessary tool for wealth redistribution.

Pope Francis met with a delegation from Italy’s internal revenue service Monday, praising them for their work and holding up taxation as a necessary tool for redistribution. Modern tax collectors are often looked upon with suspicion just as they were in the times of Jesus, the pontiff said, but they provide an essential service to the common good by redistributing wealth. “A certain culture of suspicion can unfortunately extend to those who enforce the laws,” Francis said. “Yet this is a fundamental task, because legality protects everyone and is a guarantee of equality.” “Laws make it possible to maintain a principle of fairness where the logic of interests generates inequalities,” he added. “Legality in the fiscal area is a way to balance social relations, removing forces from corruption, injustice, and inequality.” “But this requires some education and cultural change,” the pope continued. “As is often said, people often see the tax system as a ‘reaching its hands into their pockets.’” In reality, he declared, “taxation is a sign of legality and justice. It must promote the redistribution of wealth, protecting the dignity of the poor and the least, who always risk being crushed by the powerful.”