The Hammers went into January with money to spend and David Moyes made it clear he wanted to sign at least two players to strengthen their push to finish in the top four.

However, after a frustrating month and a hectic deadline day in which they failed to secure any of their targets, West Ham came away from the transfer window without any new arrivals.

It leaves their squad light in key areas, still short of cover for Michail Antonio and just one or two injuries away from another defensive shortage.

Moyes has worked wonders with a small squad and West Ham cannot be written off in the race to qualify for the Champions League. They currently occupy fifth place, are just one point behind Manchester United in fourth and have scored more goals than Tottenham, Arsenal and United.

Despite that, it is hard to escape the feeling that their failure to sign reinforcements has put their hopes of maintaining a top-four push at risk.

New billionaire Czech investor Daniel Kretinsky warned West Ham would not spend big in January and Moyes said he only wanted to bring in players who would improve the squad.

It also cannot be ignored that it was a difficult market to operate in, and rivals like Spurs and Arsenal also found it tough going. But supporters have been left disappointed by the failure to sign new arrivals.

Just like the January loan signing of Jesse Lingard breathed new life into the team for the second half of last season, Moyes wanted another burst of energy this term. The fear among fans now is West Ham might fade away.

There was a late move to sign Lingard again on Monday, but United blocked his departure. Deadline-day moves for Marseille defender Duje Caleta-Car, Duvan Zapata and Benfica striker Darwin Nunez were also unsuccessful.

West Ham made approaches for the Leeds duo Kalvin Phillips and Raphinha, and looked at Blackburn forward Ben Brereton Diaz and Stade Reims striker Hugo Ekitike. When the big-money moves failed to materialise, an offer for the likes of Brereton Diaz would surely have improved their squad.

Cover for Antonio, which West Ham have needed since selling Sebastien Haller to Ajax last January and which should have been addressed a long time ago, felt essential.

Moyes is trying to implement a new approach to recruitment at West Ham, moving away from short-termism and trying to ensure expensive flops like Haller and Felipe Anderson are a thing of the past. His patient, long-term approach will be put to the test over the remainder of the season.

The manager has been pushing the message behind the scenes that West Ham have the chance to make the leap and become a club capable of challenging for top-four finishes in the long-term. Investment is the only way to ensure that they can maintain their recent rise, something that is not lost on Moyes. He knows standing still is not an option.

With United in transition and Spurs and Arsenal still unconvincing, West Ham might just have let slip a huge opportunity.