WASHINGTON – President Joe Biden is expected to tap former U.S. Senator Doug Jones of Alabama to shepherd his Supreme Court nominee through the Senate confirmation process, according to a source familiar who spoke to USA TODAY on condition of anonymity in order to discuss the matter.

Biden has yet to name his pick to replace retiring Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer, but the president has pledged to nominate the first Black woman in the nation's history to the high court by the end of February. The president is considering more than a dozen candidates for the seat, including South Carolina federal Judge J. Michelle Childs.

Jones, who lost a tough re-election battle to Sen. Tommy Tuberville in 2020, was floated as a possible choice to serve as attorney general before Biden named Merrick Garland to that post. He became the first Democrat in 25 years to win a U.S. Senate seat in Alabama in a 2017 special election in large part due to get-out-the-vote efforts led by Black women.

In his role as a so-called sherpa, Jones will help Biden's nominee navigate the Senate confirmation process, including private one-on-one meetings with key senators who will determine the candidate's fate. Jones' relationships with lawmakers in both parties will be an key asset. Jones' new role was first reported by the New York Times.

The Alabama Democrat is a former U.S. attorney known for prosecuting two Ku Klux Klansmen in the 1963 of Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist Church, which killed four African American girls.

Jones is a longtime Biden ally. They first met when Jones introduced the then-Delaware senator at his law school, Samford University, more than four decades ago. Jones served as a state co-chair for Biden's first presidential campaign in 1988, while Biden was the first national Democrat to campaign at a rally for Jones during his 2017 bid for the Senate. Jones also was among the first speakers to kick off the Democratic National Convention in 2020.

Biden, who said he plans to select his nominee by the end of the month, met with Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, at the White House Tuesday about the impending court vacancy. Durbin chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee and Grassley is the top Republican on the panel.

Following the meeting, Durbin said the president wants to seek input from both parties and is hoping the Senate will confirm his pick about 40 days after the White House sends the nominee to the upper chamber, which is in line with the historical average.

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Doug Jones to guide Biden Supreme Court pick through Senate