Another day, another disappointing macro data point with manufacturing growth slowing more than expected and inflation higher than expected in this morning's PMI/ISM data (while EU unemployment fell to a record low - yea really)...

Sen. Manchin's comments that Build Back Better is dead spooked stocks after the usual post-opening-plunge dip-buying fest, and sentiment was also not helped by St.Louis Fed's Jim Bullard reprising his role as 'bad cop' noting that QT could start in Q2 and 5 rate-hikes this year is 'a good bet'...
• None 1430ET BULLARD: I DON'T THINK A 50 BASIS POINT INCREASE REALLY HELPS US RIGHT NOW
• None 1432ET BULLARD: I THINK MARKETS PRICING IN FIVE HIKES THIS YEAR "IS NOT TOO BAD A BET"
• None 1443ET BULLARD: FED B/SHEET RUNOFF CAN BE FASTER THAN LAST TIME AROUND

STIRs were unmoved by Bullard's hawkishness... given that they are already there...

A last-hour panic-bid lifted all the majors into the green on the day with Small Caps outperforming

Was the Build Back Better and Macro data 'bad news' just bad enough to be good?

Small Caps gains managed to erase all the post-FOMC losses finally (rest of majors are already well above that level)...

The Dow and S&P rallied back above their 200DMAs. The Dow surged up to its 100DMA...

XOM soared today after earnings to its highest since April 2019...

Shorts were squeezed once again

VIX was clubbed like a baby seal, back to a 22 handle, as panic hedges were puked...

The belly of the curve underperformed today but overall - despite some whipsawing - the bond market ended the first day of Feb relatively quietly...

For context, the curve is still dramatically flatter post-Fed with 30Y practically unchanged while 2Y yields are up 15bps...

The dollar continued to slide, almost erasing all of the post-FOMC spike gains...

Cryptos were relatively quiet today with bitcoin very marginallyhigher and Ethereum outperforming...

XOM soared today despite oil prices actually closing lower, with WTI chopping around $88 ahead of tonight's API inventory report...

Gold pumped and dumped to start February but ended back above $1800...

Finally, this morning's disappointing ISM data suggests cyclicals have a long way to go still relative to defensives before reality dawns once again...

And longer-term moves (of more than an hour maybe?) will likely care about the resumption of earnings revision breadth's downtrend...

And that fun-durr-mental weakness is happening as the market's main pillar of support - an ever-expanding Fed balance sheet - is about to reverse.