Before making its infamous bet on Gamestop, Melvin Capital Management was a well-respected, multi-billion AUM hedge fund thanks to its founder, Gabe Plotkin, and his close ties with Wall Street legends like Steve Cohen. One year later, having been dragged in front of Congress and publicly humiliated by having the losses from his GameStop short held up in the business press as one of the worst bets of all time, Plotkin is in surprisingly good shape - reputationally speaking.

After Melvin suffered a 17% drop in its main long-short (more longs than shorts now) fund during January's market rout, Bloomberg reported that Melvin is stil somehow in the process of raising a new 'long only' fund (just as the Fed is supposedly about to start hiking interest rates to 'aggressively tame' inflation and send equities into another bear market).

A Bloomberg reporter pointed out that Melvin and Plotkin had filed paperwork with the SEC to register a fund called "Melvin Capital Long Only LP". Melvin Capital Long-Only Offshore.

The paperwork shows that the new fund will be managed out of Melvin's headquarters on Madison Avenue in Manhattan. As for the money under management, Melvin didn't disclose that (readers can find Melvin's Form D below).

As we said the other day, it might be hard to believe, but Plotkin still has some admirers on Wall Street, who regarded Melvin as "especially gifted" at shorting (that is, before they took on what must have been one of the worst shorts in the history of the American securities markets). Steve Cohen himself has said that among the hundreds of portfolio managers who had worked for him, Plotkin was one of the most " disciplined and process-oriented" - whatever that means.

We also joked last year about Melvin going "long-only" - and then posting another heartbreaking loss for its LPs.

Fortunately for Plotkin, he has some pretty influential (not to mention wealthy) backers: both Steve Cohen's new firm and Citadel's hedge fund arm provided Plotkin with an influx of cash after he closed his short position on GameStop, losing 55% of his investors' money in the process.

It's not clear whose money will be going into this new "long only" vehicle, but we imagine Plotkin's association with Cohen and Griffin will be a major asset.

Unfortunately for Plotkin and his compatriots at Melvin, making money in the market is a lot easier when asset prices are riding a wave of Fed-induced easy money, scoring dozens of all-time highs in a given year.

While one hedge funder after another has been appearing on CNBC this week to proclaim that a bear market is simply an opportunity to produce "alpha", their returns are telling a different story.