Authored by Jim Quinn via The Burning Platform blog,

In Part One & Part Two of this article I laid out how those in power have used the power of propaganda and the psychology of fear to weaponize a flu to further their Great Reset agenda, while ensuring an economic and financial collapse through the issuance of trillions in unpayable bad debt. In Part Three of this article, I will examine how the civic decay in our society, created by the ruling class, will coalesce into a bloody firestorm of death and destruction during the remaining years of this Fourth Turning.

There had been a theory discussed a few years ago regarding the nature of Fourth Turnings alternating between externally focused and internally focused. It is more about the key drivers, as all Fourth Turnings are impacted by domestic and foreign influences. Even though the sample size is small, this Fourth Turning appears to be following the alternating pattern. The American Revolution was driven by conflict with a foreign power (Great Britain), with another foreign power (France) tipping the scales in favor of the patriots. The Civil War was almost entirely a domestic internal conflict, with Great Britain not fully supporting the Confederacy, and tipping the scales in favor of the North. The Great Depression was created by global central bank machinations, with World War II almost entirely fought on foreign soil, leaving the U.S. as the unchallenged leader of the free world after 1945.

It is evident to me this Fourth Turning is being propelled domestically, as the unbridgeable rifts between political parties, states, cities, races, and genders are being stoked and amplified by globalist billionaire elitists. The accelerating level off civic decay and our rapid descent into chaotic conflict has not occurred spontaneously but has been engineered as a crucial element in the Great Reset scheme to “reimagine” and “reset” the world.

Klaus Schwab, the front man for the Davos elite, and sociopath of the first order, sees the deaths of millions from a purposely weaponized virus as a “window of opportunity”. When he refers to “our world” he isn’t including you in his world. You will own nothing and be happy. He and his billionaire death cult will own everything and keep you enslaved in debt, under technological surveillance, with the threat of violent retribution if you do not bend the knee.

Anyone who has observed the level of violence, murder, lawlessness, and mayhem sweeping the country over the last two years who thinks our country isn’t descending into a chaotic hellscape, are either willfully ignorant or benefiting financially from the orchestrated turmoil. The BLM looting, rioting, burning and murdering escapade, which went on for over a year, and strangely subsided once Trump was disposed of, was not a kinetic reaction to the death of a black drug addled felon being restrained by a white cop, but a well-funded orchestration designed to create havoc in cities across the nation, as part of the plan to destabilize our society.

These staged “protests” were funded by Soros and his ilk to accomplish multiple goals: eliminating Trump; destroying small businesses; weaponizing uneducated blacks; crippling law and order by scapegoating police; and generating outrage by law abiding white people across the country.

You know BLM is nothing but a front organization for Soros, because they have no interest in protesting or stopping the mass slaughter of black teens in the urban ghettos of Philly, Chicago and all the other Democrat run hell holes across the land. Race baiters on MSNBC like Sharpton & Joy Reid are nothing but grifters stoking the flames of a fake racism narrative to please the Soros crowd.

It is an unequivocal fact George Soros and his cohorts have funded the election of district attorneys, mayors, governors, and congress people with massive influxes of money, guaranteed to put into place Marxist Manchurian candidates who will do the bidding of Soros and the Great Reset World Economic Forum elite.

There is no other logical explanation for why Soros would spend tens of millions to get DAs elected in Chicago, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and numerous other Democrat controlled cities, who have absolutely no interest in prosecuting violent felons or even keeping them confined. The result has been a massive surge in murder, violent assaults, car jackings, robberies, and wholesale death and destruction. The blood is on Soros’ hands.

Marxist Governors and mayors like Newsom, Whitmer, DeBlasio, and Lightfoot, along with these Marxist DAs, have been put in place to conduct a controlled demolition of our civilized society in order to build back better under the principles of totalitarianism, under the control of billionaire globalist psychopaths hell-bent on owning everything and keeping a boot on the face of everyone else.

The co-conspirators in the media, fully underwritten by Soros and his accomplices, have undertaken to promote fake racist attacks by Nigerian MAGA terrorists and NASCAR noose wielding white supremacists, while completely ignoring the slaughter by vehicle of 6 white Christmas parade participants and injuring of 62 by a provably racist black felon, let out of jail by a Soros DA. The narrative to maximize the chances of a race war is the goal of Soros and his media mouthpieces.

How can anyone with critical thinking skills possibly believe what Biden and his handlers are orchestrating on our southern border isn’t designed to further tear our country down, making a mockery of the legal immigration process and a fair and honest election system? In the year he has been in office Biden has willfully allowed two million illegal immigrants (mostly young men) from countries all over the world to pour over our southern border with no effort to stem the flow. This is clearly a well-planned, Soros funded initiative to illegally remake the demographics of the country to maximize Democrat control in key swing states and solidify their hold on urban enclaves.

Your government is using your tax dollars to secretly shuttle these illegals on airplanes in the middle of the night to small airports in communities all across the country and then letting them disperse into the general population. They are landing in Westchester NY, Allentown PA, and dozens of other small cities. Others are given bus tickets and told to go anywhere they choose. Meanwhile, NYC, to be followed by many other Democrat run municipalities, are passing laws to allow illegals to vote in elections. This blatant abuse of power goes unchecked.

Any semblance of a civilized society based on agreed upon community standards, human rights, minimal but rational laws, inhabited by morally endowed citizenry, and led by ethical fair-minded leaders, has been systematically and methodically destroyed by a ruling oligarchy driven to maximize their own control, wealth, and power. They see you as nothing more than cattle to be milked, controlled, herded, and slaughtered for profit when they decide. Freedom, liberty, and self-responsibility are outmoded concepts in a world run by billionaire oligarchs. Do you get it yet?

We know our public-school government indoctrination centers have dumbed down generations of young people, teaching them how to regurgitate government approved pablum, but not how to think critically, question authority, or develop an inherent curiosity about their surroundings. They don’t want concerned intelligent citizens understanding the true nature of their government, financial system, and who really controls the levers of this world. Carlin summed it up nicely in his epic rant about the real owners of this country and the truth about the American Dream.

But dumbing down the populace wasn’t enough for these psychopaths in suits. Over the last several years, the “woke” agenda has been drilled into the pliable brains of students from kindergarten through college by far-left teachers, professors, and administrators doing the bidding of Soros, the CCP, and others whose goal is to subvert and destroy our way of life. Our universities have been infiltrated by useful idiot communists, bent on creating a new generation of youth educated to hate America, embrace victimhood, believe the tripe about institutional racism, and think socialism is a viable economic system.

A large percentage of those under 30 years old believe their feelings and opinions, supplied by the fake news propaganda spewing corporate media outlets, and reinforced by left wing social media corporations, are as legitimate as provable facts based on reality. They can and have ignored the facts, but that doesn’t mean the facts cease to exist.

There is nothing worse in this “woke” agenda than the wholesale teaching of degeneracy to youngsters, trying to portray abnormal behavior, perversion, and deviancy as normal and a reasonable choice for them to make. The absurdity of men pretending to be women in order to win sporting events has feminists twisting in the wind. What kind of school administration and teachers would allow drag queens to parade their deviant lifestyle in front of kindergartners? If you teach deviancy and degenerate behavior, you beget a society bereft of morality, values, community standards, and behavior befitting a civilized society.

People who choose abnormality as their way of life are perfectly free to do so, as long as their choices do not infringe upon how the vast majority of normal people live their day to day lives. But that is not what left wing politicians, woke universities, Hollywood deviants, and leftist media have been jamming down our throats for years. They glorify abnormality and degenerate behavior. They are essentially promoting mental illness. And now every university and corporation have to hire diversity & inclusion departments and make white employees sit through “training” about how they are privileged and should be ashamed of being white.

Through the use of the public education system, media propaganda designed to manipulate the minds of the masses, corrupt feckless politicians, and a society controlled by corporate technocrats, they have produced millions of mentally ill people who only appear normal because we have allowed our society to descend into an anything goes culture of decadent ignorance. We have become a profoundly unhealthy society, driven by emotion, technological distraction, and a belief your ignorance is equal to my knowledge.

If Aldous Huxley thought our society was profoundly abnormal in the 1950s, he would need some extra LSD after witnessing the level of mental illness being exhibited by tens of millions, particularly since the election of Donald Trump in 2016. Trump derangement syndrome quickly mutated into the madness of the Covidian Cult and their glorious leader Saint Fauci of Wuhan.

The piece de resistance in the quest to maximize the amplitude of civic decay during this Fourth Turning has been accomplished through this pandemic of the willfully ignorant, incited and galvanized by the mendacious media, totalitarian paid-off politicians, and health “experts” in the pockets of Big Pharma, as the biggest propaganda marketing campaign in human history was launched to instill fear in the masses over a relatively non-lethal flu which could be combated with cheap existing therapies and vitamins.

The campaign of fear was used to test how far the masses would allow themselves to be herded, corralled, and sheered of their liberties, freedoms, and Constitutional rights. The ruling elite were ecstatic to learn they attained near absolute compliance and obedience to their ridiculous lockdowns, un-scientific mask mandates, ludicrous social distancing guidelines, and now their preposterous vaccine passport requirements.

The mass formation psychosis discussed in Part One of this article absolutely meets the criteria laid out above by Huxley. The millions of hopeless victims of mental illness, created by their environment, teaching and conditioning, were the perfect dupes for this fabricated covid mass hysteria event. They cling to the belief they are making individual decisions based on facts, when in reality they only have the illusion of individuality, and have unthinkingly followed the herd, getting their experimental jabs, at the behest of those in power.

In reality, they have voluntarily become deindividualized by joining the Covidian Cult of mental illness. They have willingly sacrificed their freedom for uniformity and obedience to the demands of authoritarians and self-proclaimed health “experts” who are compensated by Soros, Gates, Big Pharma, and the usual Davos suspects. Their previous mild level of mental illness has metastasized into a full-blown cancerous tumor of mental disease with this covid mass formation psychosis. The only treatment for this cancer is freedom, truth, factual data, and resistance.

This entire scamdemic has been nothing but a psychological operation by the Great Reset architects to permanently tear the last vestiges of our society down, create havoc and hatred, instill fear among the masses, scrap what remains of the Constitution, rule by dictate, and reap the riches of their psychopathic venture. We’ve reached peak civic decay and it has all been aided, abetted, and funded in an organized way by Soros and his fellow billionaire globalists who want to permanently reset the world, so they call the shots and reap the spoils.

The rollout of these dangerous, untested, gene therapies, disguised as vaccines, which do not prevent you from catching the virus, spreading the virus, being hospitalized by the virus, or dying from the virus, is the final straw and will determine whether we surrender to tyranny or make a last stand.

The vaccine mandates being rammed down our throats by our illegitimate president poopy pants, totalitarian governors and mayors, universities, and woke corporations are a bridge too far for hundreds of millions around the world. The mentally ill sheep have timidly lined up for the three jabs (soon to be four) even though covid “cases” are 350% higher than they were before the “vaccines”. Connecting the dots is hard for the mentally ill, who don’t want to admit they were lied to and misled.

Millions are being injured or killed by the vaccines. And no one knows the long-term health effects, but I can assure you they won’t be good. So, our betters, ruling through intimidation, cancel culture, and illegal proclamations, are mandating citizens to be injected with this toxic concoction or be shunned from society, fired from their jobs, and reviled as filthy disease spreaders. A mandate for something that doesn’t work is the pinnacle of absurdity. But here we are.

The push back and resistance from a minority of freedom loving, like minded individuals around the world seems to be having an impact. Protests across the world against vaccine mandates have been steadily growing over the last few months. The defiance in the face of these mandates and willingness to confront the police thugs enforcing the dictates of their totalitarian masters has begun to spread like wildfire across the globe.

The U.K., Ireland, Denmark, and several other European countries have been forced into scrapping their mandates and restrictions by their outraged and vocal constituents. Large peaceful protests are beginning to work, inspiring critical thinking citizens of other countries to follow their lead. Brushfires of freedom are being lit. Hopefully, the citizens of Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Austria, France and especially the United States are inspired to resist vaccine mandates too.

In the U.S., a Defeat the Mandates rally of tens of thousands was held in the heart of Mordor on the Potomac at the Lincoln Memorial last week with speakers including Dr. Robert Malone, Dr. Peter McCullough, Dr. Pierre Kory, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., and many other purveyors of vaccine truth. The covid propagandists in the mainstream media pretended it didn’t happen, because that’s how censorship works in today’s world.

Of course, the old Fahrenheit 451 method of book burning is still alive and well, with the enlightened left attempting to de-platform Joe Rogan for daring to interview two of the highly credentialed doctors listed above. The Fahrenheit 451 squads at Twitter, Facebook, and Google have been censoring, deleting, canceling, and technologically burning up the factual writings of anyone who dares question the official approved government narrative about covid, Wuhan, ivermectin, myocarditis, vaccine effectiveness, vaccine safety, PCR test reliability, Saint Fauci, the uselessness of masks, torture of school children, and the true reasons for vaccine mandates. Speaking truth to power is a crime when the criminals control the levers of power.

Many people have been cowering in fear, afraid to speak out against vaccine mandates because they could be fired, cancelled, or shunned by friends and family. But some prominent and not so prominent individuals have stood up and refused to be cancelled or bullied into an unwanted and unnecessary medical procedure, which only benefits Big Pharma and the leeches in government, healthcare industry and media attached to these peddlers of fake cures for the billions in handouts for toeing the line.

The most inspiring example of push back is the current blockade and occupation of Ottawa by 50,000 truckers from all over the continent. Their arrival prompted their cowardly prime minister to go into hiding in a secret location where he can tweet and spend time re-reading the Communist Manifesto and how Castro succeeded in keeping Cuba’s economy at a 1950s level for sixty years.

Trudeau has done wonders for the meme business, with Coward-19 trending on Twitter. People in the U.S. are thinking, if the normally docile Canadians can rise up against tyranny, why can’t we. Talk of a trucker convoy in the U.S. to surround Washington DC has begun to bubble.

Still, the battle is far from won. The government-controlled media in Canada practices censorship by pretending the trucker revolt isn’t happening. If you don’t report it on your daily propaganda newscasts or write about it in your daily bird cage lining newspapers, then it’s not happening. But this is where social media and independent bloggers can still have an impact.

When citizens of the world see what is actually happening, as reported by other citizens, the credibility of the legacy media falls further, trust in the government sinks, resistance builds, and eventually the existing corrupt social order falls and is swept away in a maelstrom of chaotic transformation. This is not the end, but the beginning of the end.

Those in power will not relinquish power without a fight. They are using their worn-out predictable playbook of deeming all protestors as white supremacists, neo-nazis, and domestic terrorists. Government infiltrators will attempt to stir up violence, just as they did on January 6 at the Capitol. The media will produce fake news about violence and racism. They have the full force of the police state and media to suppress the Ottawa protest and all future protests.

We cannot go meekly into the night, satisfied with a few days of publicity and proud to have made a brief stand against the forces of darkness. This is a Fourth Turning, where the action builds to a crescendo and the climax is bathed in blood. The mantle of power must be seized, as the forces opposing truth, freedom and liberty are demonic in nature and capable of the most horrific atrocities in their voracious appetite for power, control, and wealth. The choice is servitude or freedom, as Calvin Coolidge accurately stated a century ago.

Our civic virtue as a nation has been lost and must be regained. Every Fourth Turning channels the fury of generations in a desperate struggle between good and evil, to reach a climactic finale. As 2022 has begun, we are clearly experiencing a winter of discontent, with anger, wrath and hatred driving opposing forces towards conflict. The divisions within our country are deep and seemingly intractable, the way Soros and the Davos elite planned. But we are the many and they are few.

They believe they are safe and secure behind their golden gates and unscalable walls, with armed guards securing their perimeter. Many monarchs have felt the same level of safety, to find out they were dreadfully wrong. When a large enough army of patriots assemble and begin to fight back, the sheep will begin to follow, and the end will be nigh for the overlords of evil. We are about to enter the most challenging and dangerous chapter of this Fourth Turning. Summon your courage and prepare to fight.

In Part Four of this article, I will try to envision what impact the current global disorder will have on the remainder of this Fourth Turning. Even though it is primarily being driven by domestic conflict, there is a high likelihood of foreign conflict, as China and Russia compete with the declining American superpower on the world stage. And politicians have always tried to distract from their domestic failures with a foreign conflict designed to garner support from the masses.

The corrupt establishment will do anything to suppress sites like the Burning Platform from revealing the truth. The corporate media does this by demonetizing sites like mine by blackballing the site from advertising revenue. If you get value from this site, please keep it running with a donation.