While some friendships may have ground to a halt without the oil of daily contact and a shared routine, others have shone brightly, offering pin-pricks of laughter and light through the grey Groundhog days.

If our WhatsApp conversations could be published, they would be tomes of empathy, telly recommendations and Zoom links with a healthy punctuation of memes as we buoyed each other through the pandemic.

There are all sorts of relationships, and friendship is amongst the most special - many studies show that people value their inner circle more than their partners.

With Christmas coming up, what better time to let your pals know how much you cherish them? Spoil your favourite people and send them a bear hug from across county lines with a gift from our round-up some small but special treats to show them how much you care.

From fancy fragrances to a corner shop’s-worth of chocs, here are some of the best gifts to send your BFFs.

Whether you’re old enough to remember SodaStream at the dizzying heights of its fame (circa 70s - 90s) or you just like the idea of fizzy water on tap, SodaStream is the must-have home carbonation system your best mate never knew they needed.

Putting the kitsch in kitchen, the device comes in a selection of fun colours and is perfect for making your own drinks with the brand’s syrups - flavours include lemonade, cream soda, orange mango, cola and more - as well as fizzing up plain old H2O.

We once tried running white wine through a SodaStream to make ‘Sham-pagne’. However, embark on such experiments at your peril; SodaStream recommends only putting water through the machine or risk breakage.

If they love a bit of arts-and-crafting, get your ride-or-die in the festive spirit with a Christmas wreath-making kit from Bloom & Wild. It’s on sale right now, so you could get two and do them together. Finally, a legit excuse for your long-awaited cheese and wine night.

Magpie-like mates will appreciate a new glamorous addition to their jewellery box. Looking like a lost relic of Balthazar Slytherin, Stellar 79’s Phoenix Ring is just the bit of magic they need to brighten up their day. Made with green tourmaline framed by feather-like shoulders, it comes in a variety of sizes.

For those who live within striking distance of the American burger bar chain, Five Guys is selling gift vouchers that you can send to pals. Physical cards are only available in-store pick one up with your next order, or better yet, order via Deliveroo for a treat (there are 250,000 possible combinations) that you can both enjoy at home.

Friends don't let friends suffer with bad skin. Skincare is at the top of our agendas. Containing products worth more than the box, a Glossybox subscription makes the ideal gift for your gals.

The gift of prosecco is a universally-adored offering. For best mates who live and die by Prosecco O’Clock, present them with Pale Fox, a delicious single estate version of the UK’s favourite Italian sparkling wine. Make it special with this gift pack, which sees a 75cl bottle (£25.95 alone) and pair of chic coupe glasses packed in a beautiful presentation box. Cheers!

Foodie friends will adore Rainbo's gyoza and Japanese larder staples, which look every bit as good as they taste. Available separately (free delivery for orders £50+) or in party boxes of 60 or 100 (drool) they're a great gift to fight Christmas food fatigu.

As well as a mix of gyoza stuffed with chicken, pork, prawn, duck and vegan shiitake the boxes come with necessary extras like pickles, chilli oil and sauce for dipping. Pop them straight in the freezer for fresh gyoza when the mood strikes.

Packs of 12 gyoza from £9.50 | boxes from £65 Rainbo

Friendship bracelets are back from the playground and in 2021, the grown-up versions have never looked chicer. Add some accessory love to your buddy’s burgeoning jewellery collection courtesy of Edge of Ember, where there are more delicate designs and chunky chains than you can shake a well gilded wrist at.

We’ve got our eye on this Everday chain bracelet; solid and golden, just like your friendship.

A rose delivery of a different kind, Jurlique's skincare is made using flowers bred specifically for the brand. The rich scent is addictive, but it's not all talk and no trousers - the products work wonders too. If your best mate is new to the brand, this hand cream is a deluxe introduction: it smells divine and keeps paws soft and supple.

If naps were a sport your bestie would be a gold medallist. Help them snooze in style with this great blanket which has a fun slogan that’s reversible too.

For friends with a flame for candles, a gift set from the hottest new kid on the block is sure to go down a storm. LA-based Boy Smells has dropped its Christmas 2021 collection and it’s all kinds of wonderful. There are three new scents to sniff: De Nimes, Broken Rosary and Figurare, each evoking the festive vibe of the season.

Tis the season to... drunkenly re-enact that Jingle Bells Rock scene from Mean Girls with your best mates because you've had a few. Get into the spirit of the seaon with Canvino's new Magnum Pack, eight cans holding around two bottles of bubbles. Housed in a ready-to-go party box, there are four sparkling rose and four sparkling white wine cans.

With busy schedules and salons booked out for the festive period, getting a pedi slot can be tough. Bring the treatment home to them thanks to Voesh, which offers a pedi-in-a-box. This isn’t just a standard foot mask, oh no. Each pack contains five single use sachets for the full pedi experience, from a sea salt soak, to a sugar scrub, masks and massage cream.

This gorgeous bottle from the Isle of Wight distillery is beautiful inside and out, and the perfect way to let your gin obsessive know you’re thinking of them. Rich with ingredients plucked from the island (think ocean-splashed rock samphire and Boadicea hops from the famous Ventnor Botanic Garden), add a splash of tonic and a cucumber garnish to bring out its sparkling best.

We can’t get enough of these gold foil-wrapped chocs; think of them as a luxurious version of Ferrero Rocher in neat block form. Packed in the cutest heart shaped tin - pink outside, bright red within - there are 26 confections to enjoy. Do yourself a favour and add two to your online basket; trust us, you’re going to want to try these.

You caffeine Queen will adore this new way to perk up Saturday night drinks. Containing everything they'll need to mix up delicious espresso martinis, this kit includes miniature bottles of premium vodka, Grey Goose, Patrón XO Café (soon to be discontinued, so grab it while you can), plus a can of Cold Brew Coffee and a martini glass for the full home bar effect.

Supermodel Kendall Jenner is the latest of her famous family to launch a product. This time its tequila and the good news is, it’s ripe for gifting (especially for the one whose happy hour tipple is a margarita). The slow-batch spirit has been made with agave leaves harvested in Jalisco, Mexico before being cooked and aged in French oak barrells. It’s been available Stateside for a while but has just made its debut in the UK. What better excuse to get your hands on a bottle?

Peony season may have been and gone, but your pal can linger in the flower’s beautiful notes for longer thanks to Floral Street. It’s Wonderland Peony EDP is a celebration of the popular petal, and is so fragrant with notes of blackcurrant, pink berries and candy floss, that actual strangers have stopped us in the street to ask what we’re wearing. Bonus points for the display-worthy bottle, too.

Roku continually offers a selection of deals on its Roku Express and Roku Premiere devices, making them ideal for nabbing as gifts. The streaming device - which allows you to watch Netflix, Prime, Disney+, Now TV, AppleTV+, Hayu and thousands more on one portal -is ridiculous simple to use. No wires, no fuss, just plug it into your TV and you’re set.

They’ll never again moan about not having anything to watch.

You know your best mate can take on the world - help them get there faster with a pair of skates from Impala. The brand offers both quad and in-line styles as well as accessories to protect newbies from the worst of the tumbles. The only thing more impressive is their colour selection which spans candy hues to attention-grabbing holographic.

Is it even Christmas if you don’t wake from a post-lunch snooze surrounded by empty Quality Street wrappers? Help your mates keep up this long and noble Christmas tradition with the gift of a 1.2kg tin of the good stuff. It’s packed full of the usual suspects, but if there’s a sweet you know your BFF hates, go down the bespoke route and have a box of their all-time favourites made up just for them. The customising service, available at selected John Lewis branches, also includes personalising the label - so you can really go to town.

These are hands down the best canned Bloody Mary’s we’ve tried, making them worthy of sending wilting, hangover-prone pals. The box comes with four cans of the pre-mixed drink, two dinky bottles of Tabasco, a tin of Bloody Mary salt and a can of Perello Picante Olive and Pickle mix to garnish. Make it special for Christmas by getting the labels customised with their name.