Representative Maxine Waters (D-CA) Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee, named twice as the most corrupt politician in Congres, has continued paying her daughter with campaign cash.

Waters’ daughter, Karen Waters, has received over $1 million in payments from her mother since 2003. The payments were made to her daughter and her daughter’s company, Progressive Connections for campaign services.

Data from the Federal Election Commission (FEC) when reviewed by Fox News Digital, revealed that payments to her daughter have ranged from hundreds to tens of thousands of dollars covering an assortment of things from campaign management services to paying for a band to perform at a holiday event.

The data show that Waters has paid her daughter and Progressive Connections over $1.2 million since 2003.

It seems Waters has made a regular industry out of funneling campaign coffers to her daughter for some time now.

Karen Waters ran slate-mailing, which is defined as “a mass mailing (more than 200 substantially similar pieces of mail sent in a calendar month) that supports or opposes a total of four or more candidates or ballot measures,” to help support her mother’s campaign. It’s not a common method being used in federal elections. In fact, during the 2020 election, Waters was the only politician running at the federal level who used a slate-mailer operation.

And that’s not the only kind of corruption that has been reported about Rep. Waters.

“Waters and her husband, Sidney Williams, separately owned hundreds of thousands of dollars in stock in OneUnited. Waters sold her shares in 2004, but her husband kept much of his when he sat on the bank’s board from 2004 to 2008, leaving with a $350,000 stake in the company. When the economy tanked, Waters asked Treasury officials to stave off OneUnited’s collapse, and arranged a series of meetings without disclosing her ties to the bank. OneUnited ultimately received $12 million in TARP funds, which it had failed to pay back as of Oct. 2010.”

When Donald Trump came along, Waters went from most corrupt politician to resistance hero, which was a joke. Because of the psychosis of Trump Derangement Syndrome, Democrats completely forgot or ignored Maxine Waters’ career of corruption to include her in the Anything To Get Rid of Donald Trump movement. That included lying about Trump every time she opened her mouth, publicly threatening Trump administration officials, and lying about having documents that proved Russian collusion.