Something very interesting emerged on social media on Tuesday, a video of George Soros complaining about the power and corruption of the Chinese Communist Party- while speaking with a ‘Conservative’ group on Monday.

“The year 2022 will be a turning point where much of the world will pivot sharply in the direction of either authoritarianism and repression or openness, and events in China will play a decisive role, said billionaire financier George Soros at a virtual event hosted by the Hoover Institution think tank on Jan. 31.

Matt Pottinger, a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and deputy national security advisor during the Trump administration, said he agreed with Soros that Xi wants total control and is unlikely to concede power peacefully. “I think he will do everything he can to stay in power for life,” Pottinger said.

And that is weird- because Soros is not a good dude.

“The 91-year-old Soros, who made his fortune in hedge funds, is infusing the money into the Democracy PAC, which he set up in 2019 to serve as his main political action committee to support Democratic causes, candidates and committees. Soros channeled roughly $80 million into the group during the 2020 cycle,” Fox News reported about Soros’ influence over of the Democrat Party.

Soros, who is known for funding radical far-left usurpations of the American Republic is a suspicious critic of the CCP, who are close allies with many Democrats in state and federal government positions.

So why is he mad at the CCP?

The Epoch Times reported about the weird event:

2022 will be a critical year in the history of the world. In a few days, China, the most powerful authoritarian state, will be hosting the Winter Olympics, and like Germany in 1936, it will attempt to use the spectacle to score a propaganda victory for its system of state controls,” Soros, 91, said.

Along other political contests such as the French elections and the Hungarian elections in April, and the U.S. mid-term elections in November, the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP’s) 20th Party Congress—an all-important twice-a-decade Party meeting —in October makes 2022 a year with few parallels in history, Soros said.

But he made a clear distinction between the CCP congress and elections in open societies with democratic legitimacy. Unlike the elections in France, Hungary, or the United States, the outcome of the CCP congress is seen as a . Xi Jinping is widely expected to gain a third term as CCP leader through heavy-handed, coercive means.

The stakes could not be higher as tensions between the CCP and Taiwan veer ever more in the direction of a military showdown. The reason this geopolitical crisis is different from another one dominating the headlines at the moment—Vladimir Putin’s designs on Ukraine—has partly to do with President Joe Biden’s reaction to these respective crises, Soros emphasized.

“Biden has generally pursued the right policies. He has told Putin that Russia will pay a heavy price for invading Ukraine, but that the U.S. will not go to war,” Soros said.

Chinese citizens have gotten the worst of both worlds under Xi’s rule, as authoritarianism has stifled many enterprises even while troubles in the real estate sector have swelled to dangerous levels based on what Soros called an unsustainable model. It is a system based excessively on credit, where people are now forced to start paying for apartments not yet even built, and subcontractors who have not been paid are simply ceasing to work.

The news of Soros’ critique of the CCP comes at the same time

“A new book documenting and exposing billionaire George Soros’s web of influence has been snubbed by the New York Times bestseller list despite selling the prerequisite number of copies. The Man Behind the Curtain: Inside the Secret Network of George Soros, according to author Matt Palumbo “…blew past the 5,000 minimum number of books needed to be sold the first week to be considered for the list.”