A newly revealed 25,000 word “secret report” is highlighting controversies old and new over Georgia’s elections system’s vulnerabilities and could be released to the public soon.

Of course, if you ask Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, he’ll continue to tell you that Georgia’s 2020 election ran smoothly, but that may be because he got caught up in a consent decree he entered into with radical leftist Stacey Abrams that changed election rules that ultimately altered the state’s election laws which was an unconstitutional act.

When the mainstream media backs a Republican you to the hilt, you just know there’s something wrong in the air.

The Big Truth for me that launched my interests in Georgia’s 2020 election was when a friend of mine, Mark Davis, president of Data Productions, Inc., who in the past was accepted by five courts as an expert witness on Georgia elections and redistricting issues, was asked to do an analysis on the 2020 voter data and he found several problems with irregularities and has discovered real proof that voter fraud took place in Georgia during the 2020 election.

Security flaws have since been discovered in Georgia’s election system by a college professor who specializes in election integrity matters, and a judge may soon release his findings to the public.

“The vulnerability was first alleged in sealed court documents in July by Alex Halderman, a computer science professor at the University of Michigan,” the Atlanta Journal Constitution reported. “As an expert for plaintiffs in the election security lawsuit, Halderman gained access to Georgia voting equipment for 12 weeks and produced a 25,000-word secret report.”

“Halderman found that malicious software could be installed on voting touchscreens so that votes are changed in QR codes printed on paper ballots, which are then scanned to record votes, according to court documents,” the report continued. “QR codes aren’t readable by the human eye, and voters have no way to know whether they match the printed text of their choices.”

“The vulnerability could be exploited by someone with physical access to a voting touchscreen, such as a voter in a polling place, or by an attacker who used election management system computers,” the report said.

“A hacker in a polling place could only target one touchscreen at a time, limiting the number of votes that could be changed, but an attack on election management systems could have a broader impact.”

“It is important to recognize the possibility that nefarious actors already have discovered the same problems I detail in my report and are preparing to exploit them in future elections,” Halderman wrote back in September. The professor added that he found no concrete evidence that Dominion voting machines changed votes in the 2020 election.

Raffensperger, to defend his declaration that the 2020 election went smoothly, said that Halderman is a partisan critic of Georgia’s voting systems. Rather than take seriously the statements made by a computer science professor who focuses on election integrity issues, Raffensperger pretty much called him a partisan hack.

The troubled Raffensperger repeated a past argument that Georgia “is more secure than ever because of audits, voter ID requirements and a ban on collecting and returning multiple absentee ballots.” The secretary of state is naïve to think that future elections are safe from vulnerabilities because Democrats are like a computer virus that constantly tries to find ways to break into a system. In fact, I would say that if you understand the nature of the problem, and the history of the Democratic Party, it’s a pretty sure bet that they are doing so right now.

“Claiming you can break into a system after being given unfettered access is like claiming you can break into a house after being given the keys and alarm codes,” Raffensperger said. That’s an incredibly ignorant statement, possibly worse than Hillary Clinton‘s, “What, like with a cloth?”

Being given “unfettered access” is one of the few ways to learn about vulnerabilities in software systems. Does Raffensperger think he could open up the terminal with normal user access rights, point to the screen and say, “Hey look! There’s a vulnerability right there. Vote for me!”

What happens when reams of paper ballots come in that were Xeroxed and then run through the system in the middle of the night when everyone else went home from the vote counting center? What happens when special software is temporarily loaded onto the voting systems via a thumb drive that allows the operator to change and delete votes? Those are things that “unfettered access” allows you to discover.

Raffensperger needs to understand that after a paper ballot has been scanned into the system, from that point on it is just a digital number, and numbers can be manipulated on a computer. You can add or subtract votes without scanning paper ballots at all. All you need is a special software to allow you to do it.

A judge is now considering releasing to the public a version of the secret report in redacted format as part of a lawsuit over election integrity.

“He should immediately gather all relevant information regarding this report, thoroughly vet its findings, and assure Georgians he is doing everything possible to ensure the system, procedures and equipment are completely secure,” Katie Byrd, a spokeswoman for Governor Brain Kemp, said Wednesday.

On Thursday, Raffensperger urged Halderman to ask the judge to release his findings on the state’s election system and his pre-2020 election testimony.

“Halderman was given full access to Georgia’s election system by the judge, the equivalent of having the keys and alarm codes to a home then claiming he found a way to break in,” Raffensperger said. “The public deserves to know the context of J. Alex Halderman’s claims and his testimony regarding the 2020 election. We are taking on these claims in court, and we will win. Sensationalized media articles and misleading reports from paid activists notwithstanding, Georgia’s election system is safe and secure.”

It sounds like Raffensperger is trying to taint Halderman’s report before it comes out.

“The ‘secret report’ referenced by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution today is not an objective, academic study by a non-biased actor,” his office added. “It is assertions by an individual who is paid to espouse opinions supporting the elimination of electronic voting systems to help a lawsuit brought by liberal activists, including one funded by Stacey Abrams’ Fair Fight Action.”

You would think a secretary of state would be very interested to learn if there are election vulnerabilities found in his state’s election system. Unless he’s trying to hide something or cover something up, he should stop trying to trash the report before it even comes out. Instead, we have Raffensperger attacking an independent third-party actor who studied the voting system and wrote a report about what he found.

What is Raffensperger afraid of coming out?