A Wisconsin spice company is begging people to buy their gift cards after the CEO went on a rant calling Republicans racist. If you are an elite spice company it doesn’t pay to anger conservatives because we have jobs. But, for some strange reason, they prefer to side with the antifa crowd that can riot all day long because they get welfare and food stamps.

Penzeys Spices CEO Bill Penzey sent an email to his paying customers, telling them that Republicans are all racists that didn’t sit too well with their established customers. 40,000 of their subscription customers have dropped their service and are now spending their money elsewhere.

“Remember how Republicans, going against a mountain of evidence to the contrary, once again lied and said BLM wasn’t a peaceful movement, but instead terrorists inciting violence throughout the country and then raced out to buy a crapload of guns because maybe they were finally going to get their chance to shoot a Black person? What a bunch of racists.”

Mostly peaceful as defined by Penzy includes $1 billion in damages and 700 injured police officers. Evidently, 40,000 people disagreed with him and it caused him to beg his remaining customers to buy their gift cards. I hear they make great gag gifts.

“After starting the year with All Republicans are Republicans and following up with Republicans are Racists we’ve set a nice little Boycott Penzeys! a surge in motion. It certainly wasn’t unexpected, but if it’s within your means, you picking up a small stack of Gift Cards would help.”

A Wisconsin-based spice company that made headlines earlier this month when its CEO sent an email to customers accusing Republicans of racism is now asking people to buy gift cards after hemorrhaging tens of thousands of customers. Since sending his controversial email, Penzey sent out another missive Friday asking for gift card purchases and admitting that his company had since lost 40,005 subscribers, which is approximately 3% of their base, according to 1130 WISN. Despite the fact that his politically-charged email reportedly brought in 30,000 new subscribers, Penzey conceded that “we are still down about 10,000. Please help.” “If you can’t even begin to fathom how to ‘compromise’ with January 6th, or the Republican vaccine lies needlessly killing 10,000 Americans every week, if you have no desire to become half-way racist, and if their intent to destroy our climate for one thousand years to come doesn’t have you asking: ‘What if we just destroyed it for five-hundred years instead?’ we would be better off with you on this Voice Of Cooking email list,” he wrote.