Why Does the NFL Genuflect to Satan? 





Because most of the owners 

are bloodsucking Cabalist Jews



professional sport, and everything else. 



"The NFL owners are a fascinating bunch really. Family businesses essentially, they're mostly all-white, male, of course rich and GOP-friendly -- but beyond the homogeneity, each has its own uniquely American story."



Uniquely American? These fuckers are all subversive Cabalist Jews. 



THE (((FIX))) IS IN 



We know how a game can be changed easily by a referee's call: and it's SO easy in football to justify a call because on any given play there is so much contact, and so many different infractions could be called; it's just up to the referee whether to call them or not. 



How about the BLM kneeling and social justice proselytizing in the NFL? 



Making these "social justice" statements and promoting political positions has no place in sports. 



But if the owners are all "socialists" in one big club (Satanic Judaism) they can all agree to do that and get away with it. 



"Capitalism generally weeds out the weak but things like the NFL operate with a form of socialism, meaning that you can't get thrown out of the league and if you have a really bad year. We give you a high draft pick so you get back into the picture," notes Rick Burton, a professor of Sport Management at Syracuse University. 



"We don't have 32 major computer companies, but we can have 32 owners. There's not going to be consolidation in the marketplace -- there aren't going to be market forces that force you out of business."

Sounds like you can never get kicked out of the club, unlike how European soccer clubs are relegated to a lower division for losing records at the bottom of the table. 



I'm done with NFL football. I might turn my attention more to College Football now, but I know they just monetized that too this past year, and now some College players are already making millions in endorsements--is this opening the gates to rigging College Football now as well? It's a bit harder to rig games in non-contact sports, like say the Australian Open Final just completed. 

 Oh, wait, they did rig that by not allowing #1 player and 9-time Australian Open winner Novak Djokovic to compete....all because of the hated political stance that is now affecting top-tier tennis, I guess. Is there no sport sacred anymore? This is what happens when the Satanists begin their Great Reset. 

 Flores also accuses Dolphins owner Stephen Ross of offering to pay him $100K per loss -- in an effort to tank the season and get a better draft pick.



Flores says when he refused to play ball, he was labeled as being difficult to work with, and ultimately fired.