The COVID nightmare on the North American Content may be coming to an end as people in two countries, Canada and the United States, combine their efforts and unify against what is viewed by many as an out of control elite group of politicians who have pushed their dominance and control too far, too fast and are now being pushed back upon- led by a group of people who are generally viewed with contempt by the elite- truckers and other working class.

“I am really excited about what is happening because people are starting to shed their fear and show some courage on things they wanted to push back on for years and were just too afraid to do alone. That is what I think is the most exciting thing to come out of this Truckers’s movement. It has really made me happy to watch them win. My group started the Re-Open movement, hoping to do the same as early as Feb. 2020, we hopefully planted some the seeds of this movement- to push back against the out-of-control government. I am so proud of these truckers. They are heroes, the movement is exciting and working- and really making an impact,” Suzzanne Monk, the founder of Re-Open America told me.

Monk directed me to numerous groups online, which she showed me were bursting with positive and feel-good stories about the way the Trucker’s movement has liberated people from COVID fears. She has chronicled the daily details on her social media and contacted American media associates to make sure we cover the transformative stories she sees.

Monk has been thinking about these issues, and the dangers to people, for two years.

“We are concerned about the economic fallout from these shutdowns”- Suzzanne Monk said in May of 2020. She was on to something-right?

What Monk identified in 2020 was the early seeds of a populist revolt against the elite. A global populist revolt against a global authoritarian government system- using COVID for their draconian power grabs- is being demolished slowly, by working-class people-, and at the heart of it all is decades of abuse combined with a recent pandemic.

Right now- In Canada the people have had enough and now Truckers are steering people to come out of their hiding and reject the government authority on COVID mandates, specifically.

Truckers are blockading roads and refusing to deliver supplies until they have had their demands addressed by the Government.

The Canadian government is ignoring them and their movement.

The very well-organized Trucker’s actions have changed the hearts and minds of Canadians, which is certain to pressure the government at some point- and all of that is bound to reach the heartbeat of America soon- because they are on our borders.

Globalism made us rely upon each other- right? Now that is being used against the elite- and Truckers are uniting.

And it’s not just activists like Monk who see the change in people’s attitude- polls show the Truckers have really broken through the COVID fear in Canada and are being accepted.

Canadiana outlet. Rebel News has been covering the story and reported recently on the blockade the convoy has purposely created.

“Truckers have shut down the Canada-U.S. border in solidarity with the Freedom Convoy and are now being threatened by law enforcement. Follow along on this page for all of our breaking coverage.