There is corruption galore in Minnesota and a couple of high profile Democrat politicians are caught up in the controversy.

Representative Ilhan Omar (D-MN), the antisemitic bigot of Congress, has celebrated at and secured donations from a business that has been accused by the FBI of stealing millions of COVID-19 relief dollars from children.

The organization is called Feeding Our Future and in 2021 it secured $197.9 million to administer food to starving children in Minnesota who have been impacted by the pandemic. Yet, according to the FBI that recently raided FOF’s headquarters, it looks like little to no money was spent on feeding children. Taking food from children. How much lower can you go?

The FBI now believes that the nonprofit colluded with local businesses to feed money into private accounts after falsifying records.

Pioneer Press noted the businesses that were involved in this scam tend to be run by “members of the East African diaspora.”

Safari Restaurant, an African food restaurant in Minneapolis, is one such business that was involved.

Safari posted on its Facebook page has been closed since two days after the death of George Floyd.

For years, that restaurant has been a central gathering point of Omars when she engages with her constituents. She has made multiple appearances. She hosted her 2018 victory party there, at the restaurant that the owners are being accused by the FBI of stealing millions of dollars out of the mouths of starving children.

Get this. Safari Restaurant got reimbursed $15 million that the owners claimed it spent to feed meals to hungry children between May and November 2020. That number is a lil suspect from the get-go, meaning they spent $15 million on food in only 6 months? The restaurant asserts that it fed 5,000 children a day, which is more children than the entire St. Paul public school system.

I don’t think a restaurant owned by the US Army could feed that many troops per day.

I’m sure in the past, scam artists like this always got away with their scams because who is going to question an African restaurant feeding starving children?

The FBI is just as skeptical as the rest of us on Safari’s claims and they noted in a search warrant that shell companies affiliated with Safari bought things like a $2.8 million home in Minneapolis, another million dollar home in Plymouth, and an $87,000 pickup truck, probably to deliver 5,000 meals to poor children hanging out at the mansions. #EyeRoll

Since the fraud scamming began, Safari donated thousands of dollars to Omar’s campaign. Was any of that money out of the mouths of starving children? And what did the alleged fraudsters expect in return?

Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey was also listed by the FBI as having at least 6 men involved in the scandal who donated to his campaign, two the men being owners of Safari Restaurant.

According to the FBI, Abdikadir Mohamud, who runs Stigma Free, a group created by Minneapolis City Council Member Jamal Osman, was a third donor to Frey and that organization worked with Safari in running the fraud scam.

I can hear Omar’s response to questions about receiving campaign contributions from a company the FBI is investigating for fraud, but I can’t figure out if she’ll go with the race card or the Muslim card? Maybe she’ll blame the Jews, or better yet, Donald Trump. Those are her usual scapegoats. Omar may not have been involved in any corruption, but it would be nice to know if the money the scammers donated to her campaign came from the tainted money, and if she would be willing to give the money back to the government if it was.