Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau faced backlash for celebrating the first day of Black History Month — despite the existence of several photos and videos of Trudeau in blackface.

“This #BlackHistoryMonth, let’s celebrate the important work of Black Canadians, who have helped build and shape our country — and let’s keep working to create a better and more inclusive Canada,” the official tweeted on Tuesday.

“As we mark the start of Black History Month and celebrate the legacy and incredible contributions of Black Canadians, let’s also recommit to the work still ahead to end anti-Black racism — and to fight discrimination in all of its forms,” Canada’s Liberal Party added.

Immediately, hundreds of social media users responded to the tweet with photos of Trudeau dressed in brownface and blackface — letting the images speak for themselves.

When the images and videos were unearthed in 2019, Trudeau explained that “it was something that I didn’t think was racist at the time, but now I recognize, it was something racist to do.”

More recently, Trudeau has also come under fire for a mandate that forces unvaccinated drivers to observe a two-week quarantine and COVID-19 test before crossing into Canada from the United States. As tens of thousands of truckers and other protesters flooded Ottawa, Trudeau claimed that other Canadians are “disgusted” by their behavior.

“I know this pandemic is frustrating. It’s frustrating that, after two years, we’re not done fighting COVID-19. But over the past few days, Canadians have been shocked — and, frankly, disgusted — by the behaviour displayed by some people protesting in our nation’s capital,” the prime minister wrote.

“I want to be very clear: We’re not intimidated by those who hurl abuse at small business workers and steal food from the homeless,” Trudeau continued. “We won’t give in to those who fly racist flags. And we won’t cave to those who engage in vandalism, or dishonour the memory of our veterans.”

“There is no place in Canada for this behaviour. So, to those responsible: It needs to stop. And to those who joined the convoy but are uncomfortable with the symbols of hatred and division on display: Be courageous and speak out. Do not stand for, or with, intolerance and hate,” Trudeau concluded.

However, as The Daily Wire’s Dillon Burroughs highlighted, the alleged “disgusting” behavior seems to contradict the observed behavior of the protesters. Some were seen cleaning the streets after the demonstrations, and — despite claims that the protesters are driven by racism — many in Canada’s Sikh community have also participated.

As the protests neared Ottawa, Trudeau and his family fled their home after testing positive for COVID-19, moving to an undisclosed location in the city.

Among those who have endorsed the “Freedom Convoy” are Tesla CEO Elon Musk, podcast host Joe Rogan, and psychology professor emeritus Jordan Peterson.

As news of the protest made international headlines, Musk expressed approval in a three-word tweet: “Canadian truckers rule.” Meanwhile, Rogan highlighted the convoy and noted that Canada is “in revolt.” Peterson — a Canadian — has repeatedly discussed the protest on his Twitter page, categorizing The Toronto Star’s assertion that the truckers are “flirting with extremists” as laughable.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.