Fox News host and former South Carolina Congressman Trey Gowdy blasted “The View” co-host Whoopi Goldberg for the insensitive comments she made about the Holocaust and her repeated failed attempts to walk them back.

Appearing as a panelist on Fox’s “Outnumbered” Tuesday afternoon, Gowdy ripped Goldberg for saying “the Holocaust [wasn’t] about race” during Monday’s episode of “The View,” then walking back her comments with a non-apology on “The Late Show” with Stephen Colbert Monday night, then apologizing again on “The View” Tuesday morning.

“You know, I have a couple of pretty simple rules in life,” Gowdy said. “Don’t ever compare anything to slavery, don’t ever compare anything to the Holocaust, and if you’re a man, don’t compare anything to pregnancy. That’s rule number one. Rule number two: if you’re going to apologize, then just apologize. Don’t explain it, don’t try to mitigate it, apologize and ask for forgiveness. And number three, as a culture, we have got to do a better job of figuring out who is just famous and who actually knows what he or she is talking about, ’cause sometimes we confuse the two.”

Co-host Harris Faulkner reacted audibly. “Wow, wow, who got hit by that dropped mic?” Faulkner said.

Shortly afterward, the host played clips of Goldberg defending rapper Jay-Z in 2014, saying he should have been allowed to hit back at sister-in-law Solange Knowles during a fight in an elevator at the time. Gowdy blasted those comments as well. “She and I were raised in different homes,” he said. “I grew up with three sisters. I would not be here with you today if I had ever raised a hand towards one of my three sisters, and my dad didn’t care what they did to me. So it’s not just chivalry, it’s biology. Men don’t hit women, and it doesn’t matter what the woman has done to you.”

“I actually like Whoopi,” Gowdy added. “She was the nicest person to me on ‘The View’ when I went on, which ain’t saying that much, but she was nice. But … those were two of the darkest chapters in the history of mankind, the Holocaust and slavery … so, Whoopi, act, but don’t weigh in on the Holocaust or slavery, or domestic violence. Just give all three of those a pass.”

Daily Wire editor emeritus Ben Shapiro also ripped Goldberg for her comments in a Twitter thread Monday.

“Whoopi Goldberg explaining that the Holocaust wasn’t about race because these were ‘two groups of white people’ isn’t just insipid, it’s insidious. It’s downplaying the minority status of Jews in order to uphold bull**** intersectional arguments that justify anti-Semitism today,” Shapiro tweeted. “The intersectional argument is that Jews are white people, and that Jews are disproportionately successful thanks to ‘white supremacy.’ Because racism is ‘animus plus power,’ and Jews are powerful because they are white, anti-Semitism from non-white supremacists isn’t bigotry.”

“Anti-Semitism, in this theory, is only present when it springs from actual white supremacists,” Shapiro continued. “Other acts of anti-Semitism are just a reflection of the dispossessed lashing out against those who have more institutional power.”

“The attempt to abstract the causes of the Holocaust from Jew-hatred to “man’s inhumanity to man” is actually a way of obscuring and covering for anti-Semitism,” Shapiro wrote.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.