Leftist Whoopi Goldberg is reportedly in hot water over remarks that she made about the Holocaust this week on ABC’s “The View” as insiders say that the issue is not going away and that she should be fired for what she said.

Goldberg repeatedly falsely claimed that the Holocaust was “not about race,” which many critics say is a form of Holocaust denial which is anti-Semitic.

“If we’re going to do this, let’s be truthful about it because the Holocaust isn’t about race. No. It’s not about race,” Goldberg said. “It’s not about race. It’s not about race.”

Sources that spoke with Page Six said that employees and executives at the company, including insiders at Disney, were furious over the remarks and the fact that there does not appear to have been any punishment doled out yet.

One insider told the publication that the controversy was not “just going to blow over.”

“ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction. The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s–t,’” the ABC insider said. “Why does Whoopi seemingly get a pass when others don’t? Perhaps this time she won’t. Many at the network — including her fellow hosts — believe Whoopi is too controversial now for the show.”

“This will cast a shadow over everything for a while. Even Joy Behar was heard saying backstage that Whoopi is ‘dead wrong’ and may not ever recover from this,” the source said. “Joy found this particularly troubling and couldn’t believe Whoopi wouldn’t stand corrected until she was forced.”

Staffers are reportedly “incredulous” and have been heard making statements like, “How stoned can she be?”

“Her agents are panicking that she may have ruined herself for good,” the source claimed. “Plus, now she has to worry about potential death threats.”

The report said that insiders are “insisting that her apology isn’t enough and demanding that she be fired.”

The Daily Wire’s Ben Shapiro responded to Goldberg’s remarks in a lengthy Twitter thread yesterday, writing: “Whoopi Goldberg explaining that the Holocaust wasn’t about race because these were ‘two groups of white people’ isn’t just insipid, it’s insidious.”

“It’s downplaying the minority status of Jews in order to uphold bullshit intersectional arguments that justify anti-Semitism today,” Shapiro added. “The intersectional argument is that Jews are white people, and that Jews are disproportionately successful thanks to ‘white supremacy.’ Because racism is ‘animus plus power,’ and Jews are powerful because they are white, anti-Semitism from non-white supremacists isn’t bigotry.”

“This logic is why the Left will condemn anti-Semitic attacks like the one at the Tree of Life but quickly memory hole anti-Semitic attacks by Black Hebrew Israelites in NJ or radical Muslims in TX,” he continued. “This logic is also why the Left will embrace and/or justify radical Islamists who wish to destroy the State of Israel rather than siding with a liberal democracy that includes a significant Muslim minority.”

“Anti-Semitism, in this theory, is only present when it springs from actual white supremacists. Other acts of anti-Semitism are just a reflection of the dispossessed lashing out against those who have more institutional power,” he concluded. “The attempt to abstract the causes of the Holocaust from Jew-hatred to ‘man’s inhumanity to man’ is actually a way of obscuring and covering for anti-Semitism.”
• 88-Year-Old Holocaust Survivor Challenges ‘The View’ After Whoopi’s Comments: Put Me On The Show
• Whoopi Doubles Down On Holocaust Remarks — Despite Apology: ‘They Had Issues With Ethnicity, Not With Race’

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.