On Tuesday, legendary and iconic NFL quarterback Tom Brady, who played in 10 Super Bowls and won seven, more than any player in NFL history, announced his retirement, but despite the fact that he played 20 of his 22 years with the New England Patriots and won six of his seven Super Bowl rings with the team, left them out of his announcement, instead focusing on his current team, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

“He thanked his Buccaneers teammates; Bucs fans; the Tampa region; Buccaneers ownership; general manager Jason Licht; head coach Bruce Arians and the rest of the coaching staff; all of the franchise’s employees; his longtime trainer Alex Guerrero; his agents Don Yee and Steve Dubin; his parents and the Brady family; and finally, his wife Gisele Bundchen and his three kids,” The New York Post pointed out.

Several hours later, however, Brady gave a shout-out to the New England Patriots.

In 2020, when Brady left the Patriots, he thanked their fans, owner Robert Kraft, and coach Bill Belichick, writing, “FOREVER A PATRIOT,” and adding, “LOVE YOU PATS NATION.”

The Patriots responded to the retirement announcement with a tweet saluting Brady, writing, “It was quite the ride. Thank you and congratulations.”

Words cannot describe the feelings I have for Tom Brady, nor adequately express the gratitude my family, The New England Patriots and our fans have for Tom for all he did during his career. A generation of football fans have grown up knowing only an NFL in which Tom Brady dominated. He retires with nearly every NFL career passing record, yet the only one that ever mattered to him was the team’s win-loss record. In in 20 years as a starter his teams qualified for the playoffs 19 times. He led his teams to the 10 Super Bowls, winning an NFL record seven championships. In a team sport like football, it is rare to see an individual have such a dominant impact on a team’s success. You didn’t have to be a Patriots fan to respect and appreciate his competitiveness, determination and will to win that fueled his success. As a fan of football, it was a privilege to watch. As a Patriots fan, it was a dream come true. I have the greatest respect for Tom personally and always will. His humility, coupled with his drive and ambition, truly made him special. I will always feel a close bond to him and will always consider him an extension of my immediate family.

Tom Brady will be remembered as one of the greatest to ever play in the NFL. An incredible competitor and leader, his stellar career is remarkable for its longevity but also for the sustained excellence he displayed year after year. Tom made everyone around him better and always seemed to rise to the occasion in the biggest moments. His record five Super Bowl MVP awards and seven Super Bowl championships set a standard that players will chase for years.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.