Dr. Robert Malone, a highly-censored scientist who worked on the development of mRNA technology, recently sat down with Daily Wire host Candace Owens to discuss vaccines, our pandemic response, masking our children, the theory of “mass formation psychosis,” and much, much more.

During the wide-ranging interview, Dr. Malone, the guest whose appearance on Joe Rogan sparked a “cancellation” effort against the popular podcaster, discussed billionaire Bill Gates, whom Malone said is foremost a “monopolist” who only shifted gears toward philanthropy and public health to rehabilitate his image following Microsoft’s antitrust trial.

“Bill Gates was not a coder. He was not a software engineer. That’s not his gift,” Malone told Owens. “He is a monopolist. He is an excellent monopolist.”

“He built Microsoft on the bones of IBM and everybody else,” the scientist continued. “He captured that industry, he captured the browser industry and the government basically shut him down.”

“What did he do when he got shut down and embarrassed — there’s those video tapes of his testimony where he’s rocking [back and forth in his seat]. … What did he do? He tried to rehabilitate himself … he moved into philanthropic work and public health,” Malone continued.

Left-wing magazine Jacobin in 2020 described Gates’s foundation as an effort “originally cooked up as a feel-good gloss to cover up his shredded reputation during Microsoft’s antitrust trial, putting him in the long tradition of obscenely rich people using the occasional generous gift to try justifying their enormous wealth and power.”

“A tiger can’t change its stripes, a leopard can’t change its spots,” Malone said. “He has systematically monopolized the global health response to infectious disease — the global public health care response, he owns it.”

It’s no question legacy media have promoted Gates as an authority on the pandemic and vaccines.

For example, numerous outlets, including CNBC, last year promoted Gates’ “hope” that the world will go back to normal by the end of 2022, largely by way of vaccines:

“The end will come for this pandemic,” Bill Gates told Sky News on Sunday. And he remains hopeful that the world will be “back to normal” as more vaccines become available. The billionaire philanthropist has been very outspoken about how the world should combat the Covid-19 pandemic since it began last March. “We won’t have eradicated this disease, but we’ll be able to bring it down to very small numbers by the end of 2022,” Gates said in the interview. …“Even this summer, [the U.S. and the U.K.] will get to high vaccination levels, and that’ll free up [more vaccines] so that we’re getting them out to the entire world in late 2021 and through 2022,” Gates said.

Related: ‘Dystopian Nightmare’: Microsoft Teams Up With Schools To Create Covid ‘Daily Pass’ For Kids

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.