Former Democratic presidential candidate and former Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard spoke out in support of podcaster Joe Rogan on Monday, blasting “zealots of wokeism” who attempt to silence voices they don’t like.

Gabbard shared the words in a Twitter post on Tuesday morning that included a tag to Joe Rogan’s account.

“I get the feeling some people are using @joerogan‘s COVID interview as a pretext to silence his voice because he’s not woke. Zealots of wokeism try to censor voices who don’t agree with theirs, because they fear the absurdity and weakness of their positions will be exposed,” Gabbard wrote.

Within hours, the popular post had nearly 35,000 likes and had been retweeted more than 6,000 times.

The support makes her the second former Democratic presidential candidate this week to stand with Rogan. Marianne Williamson offered a post in favor of the popular comedian and podcaster on Monday regarding attacks on his freedom of speech.

“I’m triple vaxxed, but (unless they’re standing for hate or calling for violence) banning someone’s podcast is too much like burning a book to me. Joe Rogan should talk on his podcast about whatever he damn well pleases,” Williamson wrote.

Rogan has been criticized by some on the left who have opposed his outspoken views regarding COVID-19. In a video released on Instagram this week, he addressed Spotify’s plans to add disclaimers to COVID-19 related content and said he would seek to be better balanced in future programs.

“I’m just a person who sits down and talks to people and has conversations with them. Do I get things wrong? Absolutely. I get things wrong, but I try to correct them. Whenever I get something wrong. I try to correct it because I’m interested in telling the truth. I’m interested in finding out what the truth is. And I’m interested in having interesting conversations with people that have differing opinions. I’m not interested in only talking to people that have one perspective,” he said in the video.

Among the many supporters of his video response was Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson.

“Great stuff here brother. Perfectly articulated,” Johnson commented on Rogan’s post. “Look forward to coming on one day and breaking out the tequila with you.”

Others have continued to oppose Rogan’s strong views on his program. Musical artist Neil Young sent a letter to Spotify demanding they either remove Rogan or remove his own music. Spotify later honored Young’s request to remove his music.

Musical artists Joni Mitchell and Nils Lofgren also later removed their music from the streaming platform in support of Young’s protest of Rogan.

“I’ve decided to remove all my music from Spotify. Irresponsible people are spreading lies that are costing people their lives. I stand in solidarity with Neil Young and the global scientific and medical communities on this issue,” Mitchell wrote on her website on Friday.

Lofgren shared his departure from Spotify in a statement in Young’s online newsletter on Saturday.

“A few days ago, my wife Amy and I became aware of Neil and Daryl [Hannah] standing with hundreds of health care professionals, scientists, doctors and nurses in calling out Spotify for promoting lies and misinformation that are hurting and killing people,” Lofgren wrote.

“When these heroic women and men, who’ve spent their lives healing and saving ours, cry out for help you don’t turn your back on them for money and power. You listen and stand with them,” he added.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.