Japanese trading and pharmaceuticals company Kowa announced that Ivermectin has shown an “antiviral effect” against COVID-19 in joint non-clinical research.

“The company, which has been working with Tokyo’s Kitasato University on testing the drug as a potential treatment for COVID-19, did not provide further details,” Reuters reported Monday.

“The use of ivermectin to treat COVID-19 is currently being investigated in a UK trial run by the University of Oxford,” the report added. “The researchers said on Monday that it was still under way and they did not want to comment further until they have results to report.”

Notably, the drug has been denied in some instances to dying Americans. In one such case, reported on by The Daily Wire in October, a 75-year-old New York man died after a hospital refused to give him ivermectin in a last-ditch effort to save his life, despite an order from a judge:

Although Jeremy L. Carter was vaccinated against COVID-19, he still caught the virus at the end of August, [News10NBC’s Jennifer Lewke] detailed. He became sick enough to be hospitalized at Rochester General Hospital and continued to deteriorate to the point where he was placed on a ventilator. After consulting with Carter’s primary care doctor, Carter and his daughter Jill Alvarado wanted to try Ivermectin. Although the drug is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat COVID-19, and the FDA has explicitly warned against using it, some doctors have prescribed Ivermectin for COVID-19 patients. However, the hospital refused to administer the drug to Carter, even though the family said they would gladly sign away any right to file a malpractice lawsuit. This forced Alvarado to sue Rochester Regional Health, where Rochester General Hospital falls — and she was successful. Finally, a judge sided with the family and ordered the hospital to administer the care. Still, though, Rochester General Hospital refused. Rochester Regional Health filed an appeal on Saturday, and a hearing was scheduled for Monday, Lewke’s report said. Carter died the day the appeal was filed.

The news from Kowa comes in contrast to the drumbeat of legacy media discrediting ivermectin as a COVID-19 treatment. In August, The Washington Post ran with the headline: “How those ivermectin conspiracy theories convinced people to buy horse dewormer.” Notably, cable news like CNN mocked hugely popular podcast host Joe Rogan for taking the drug, again conflating it with “horse dewormer.” As highlighted by The Daily Wire’s Ashe Schow, media figures last year ran with a false report about “Ivermectin overdoses” overwhelming Oklahoma hospitals, forcing gunshot victims to wait for beds.

The Food and Drug Administrations addressed the drug in the summer, too, telling Americans sarcastically, “You are not a horse. You are not a cow. Seriously, y’all. Stop it.”

“Currently available data do not show ivermectin is effective against COVID-19,” the FDA post said. “Clinical trials assessing ivermectin tablets for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19 in people are ongoing.”

Related: No, Ivermectin Overdoses Didn’t Overwhelm Oklahoma Hospitals And Force Gunshot Victims To Wait

Related: ‘Horses***’: CNN Contributor Sides With Rogan Over Own Network On Ivermectin Claims

Related: Don Lemon Doubles Down On Joe Rogan ‘Horse Dewormer’ Claim, Gets Slammed: Lying ‘Encouraged’ At CNN

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.