The greatest quarterback of all time has made it official. Tom Brady is retiring from the game of football.

“I have always believed the sport of football is an ‘all-in’ proposition – if a 100% competitive commitment isn’t there, you won’t succeed and success is what I love so much about our game,” Brady wrote in an Instagram post. “There is a physical, mental, and emotional challenge EVERY single day that has allowed me to maximize my highest potential. And I have tried my very best these past 22 years. There are no shortcuts to success on the field or in life.”

“This is difficult for me to write, but here it goes: I am not going to make that competitive commitment anymore,” Brady continued. “I have loved my NFL career, and now it is time to focus my time and energy on other things that require my attention.”

Brady finishes his illustrious career with seven Super Bowl rings — the most by a player in NFL history — and as the NFL’s all-time leader in passing yards, completions, and passing touchdowns. Those close to Brady have believed that his 22nd season would be his last following the Bucs loss to the Los Angeles Rams in the NFC Divisional Playoffs.

Following Tampa Bay’s 30-27 loss to the Rams, Brady said he would take his future “day by day.”

“I haven’t put a lot of thought into it,” Brady said according to ESPN. “I’ll just take it day by day. And we’ll see.”

At 44-years-old, Brady led Tampa Bay to a 13-4 regular season, and led the league in passing yards (5,316) and passing touchdowns (43). He has long discussed playing until the age of 50, but told NBC Sports reporter Peter King in August that he’ll retire when the “time’s right.”

“Tom Brady will be remembered as one of the greatest to ever play in the NFL,” NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said in a statement. “An incredible competitor and leader, his stellar career is remarkable for its longevity but also for the sustained excellence he displayed year after year.

“Tom made everyone around him better and always seemed to rise to the occasion in the biggest moments,” the statement continued. “His record five Super Bowl MVP awards and seven Super Bowl championships set a standard that players will chase for years.”

Brady was drafted by the New England Patriots with the 199th pick of the 2000 NFL Draft, and took over as the starting quarterback during the 2001 season after an injury to Drew Bledsoe. He would go on to lead New England to the organization’s first championship, and win five more Super Bowls with the Patriots in his 20 seasons under head coach Bill Belichick.

He left New England following the 2019 season, and won his seventh Super Bowl in his first season in Tampa Bay.

Joe Morgan is the Sports Reporter for The Daily Wire. Most recently, Morgan covered the Clippers, Lakers, and the NBA for Sporting News. Send your sports questions to sports@dailywire.com.