Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar announced on Monday that she will seek re-election in 2022.

Omar became the first Somali American elected to Congress in 2018 and was re-elected in 2020 with 64% support in Minnesota’s 5th District against Republican challenger Lacy Johnson.

The progressive congresswoman has long been associated with a radical group of House Democrats referred to as the Squad. Other members include Reps. Jamaal Bowman (NY), Cori Bush (MO), Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY), Ayanna Pressley (MA), and Rashida Tlaib (MI).

“When I first ran for this office there was one thing I kept coming back to. Something I said to myself and to the voters over and over: I believe that a better world is possible. I still believe that,” Omar said in a statement on Monday, according to WCCO.

“Omar has passed eight bills and amendments into law during her first two terms. Additionally, she passed another 48 bills through the House, introduced 100 more, and co-sponsored nearly 1,100 more bills and amendments,” the report added.

In a video prior to her re-election announcement, Omar posted a video to show her accomplishments over the past three years in the House.

Omar is seen as controversial among many Americans over her progressive views that have included calls to defund police as well as attacks against Israel that have been noted as anti-semitism on multiple occasions:

House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said in an interview in January that if Republicans win control of the House in 2022 that he is kicking at least three Democrats off of certain committees, including Omar. The Daily Wire reported:

McCarthy made the remarks in an interview with Breitbart News and said that the move comes in light of to Democrats kicking two Republicans — Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) and Paul Gosar (R-AZ) — off their committees. “The Democrats have created a new thing where they’re picking and choosing who can be on committees,” McCarthy said. “Never in the history [of Congress] have you had the majority tell the minority who can be on committee. But this new standard which these Democrats have voted for—if Eric Swalwell cannot get a security clearance in the private sector, there is no reason why he should be given one to be on Intel or Homeland Security. He will not be serving there.” “Ilhan Omar should not be serving on Foreign Affairs,” McCarthy said. “This is a new level of what the Democrats have done.”

Omar also made headlines in October 2021 for blasting her own state’s Minneapolis police force.

“One, the police have chosen to not fulfill their oath of office and to provide the public safety they are owed to the citizens they serve, right? It’s documented. But even before that, it was documented. The Minneapolis Police Department is the most dysfunctional police department, in our state and probably in the country,” she said.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.