Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), ranking member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, initiated several inquiries and hearings on COVID in 2020-2022:
• Early Outpatient Treatment: An Essential Part of a COVID-19 Solution from 11/29-12/3/20.
• People Who Want To be Seen, Heard, and Believed by the Medical Community on 6/28/21 featured people injured by the COVID shots.
• Senator Johnson Expert Panel on Federal Vaccine Mandates and Vaccine Injuries on 11/22/21.
• Senator Johnson Demands Answers from DoD on Disclosure About COVID-19 Origins and Early Treatment on 1/11/22.

Dr. David Martin, featured in Plandemic: Indoctornation which went viral in 2020, said Sen. Johnson is the only person in Congress who is investigating the failed COVID policies.

Do Senate Hearings Show That COVID-19 Vaccine Use Is Illegal? (Updated) shows Senator Johnson held hearings on early treatments for COVID-19 from November 29 to December 3, 2020.

Dr. Pierre Kory, a lung and ER MD who is Associate Professor of Medicine St. Luke’s Aurora Medical Center, testified in Senate hearings Early Outpatient Treatment: An Essential Part of a COVID-19 Solution and Early Outpatient Treatment: An Essential Part of a COVID-19 Solution, Part II. Dr. Kory is the President of the Frontline COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance (FLCCC). He spoke on behalf of the group of doctors who have published over 2,000 peer-reviewed documents.

Dr. Kory explained that Ivermectin is a MIRACLE drug when used in early outpatient treatment. Ivermectin not only treats COVID, but prevents it! Family members of people who have COVID-19 can use Ivermectin to protect themselves. Dr. Kory explained that the NIH, FDA, and CDC have been ignoring this information — costing the lives of hundreds of thousands of COVID patients. He called for the NIH to review the medical evidence on Ivermectin which won the Nobel Prize in medicine for its anti-viral activity.

See “Why Doesn’t America Use Ivermectin For COVID?”

The COVID narrative says the shots are “safe and effective”.

2021 JUN 28 SEN. RON JOHNSON PEOPLE WHO WANT TO BE SEEN, HEARD AND BELIEVED BY THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY (video)

“Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson holds a news conference with families from across the country who share their experiences regarding ADVERSE REACTIONS to COVID-19 vaccines.”

Journalist Calls For Trial of The Press That Lied To The World (video)

Senator Johnson Expert Panel on Federal Vaccine Mandates and Vaccine Injuries By THE THINKING CONSERVATIVE November 2, 2021

“U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) held a panel discussion with doctors and medical researchers who have treated COVID-19 vaccine injuries and are researching the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, patients who have experienced adverse events due to the COVID-19 vaccine, and vaccine mandates.

The senator spoke to his advocacy for early treatment, the importance of American’s health care freedom and recognizing natural immunity, the impacts of mandates on the American workforce and the economy, and the lack of transparency from federal health agencies in response to his COVID-19 oversight requests. Sen. Johnson extended an invitation to the following agencies and drug companies so they can hear firsthand from the vaccine injured and medical professionals.”

People injured by the COVID shots participated in the 3-hour hearings. Parts 1-5 are linked to below.

SEN. RON JOHNSON CHAIRS SENATE HEARING ON VACCINES AND THEIR ADVERSE EFFECTS – PART-1 (video)

“At last the truth is coming out about these so-called vaccines, first-hand testimonies of some of the Adverse Effects AND experts speaking out about GROSS censorship and coverups and malfeasance at ALL levels. All Mainstream Media, tech giants, CDC, FDA, NIH were invited to attend — NONE accepted. Yet, MSNBC reported Sen. Johnson was spreading yet another ‘Conspiracy Theory’. URBAN Milwaukee news slammed him for promoting ‘vaccine disinformation’. Watch the video and YOU be the JUDGE!”

Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky) has repeatedly grilled Dr. Anthony Fauci about the role of his agency, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), in funding “gain of function” research at the Wuhan Lab in China that led to the creation of the SARS-COV-2 virus which is responsible for COVID-19. Fauci has maintained under oath that the NIH and NIAID did not fund gain of function research with the EcoHealth Alliance program. If Fauci lied before Congress, he is guilty of perjury which is punishable by a prison term of up to five years.

Congress Demands Info On Fauci’s COVID Funding Role shows that Project Veritas published a whistleblower’s account. WHISTLEBLOWER DOCS REVEAL TRUE ORIGIN OF CORONAVIRUS – FAUCI IN THE HOTSEAT

“Major development in the search for the origins of CV19, a Whistleblower has emerged and Fauci is in the spotlight!”

Military Documents About Gain of Function Contradict Fauci Testimony Under Oath

“Project Veritas has obtained startling never-before-seen documents regarding the origins of COVID-19, gain of function research, vaccines, potential treatments which have been suppressed, and the government’s effort to conceal all of this. The documents in question stem from a report at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, better known as DARPA, which were hidden in a top secret shared drive. DARPA is an agency under the U.S. Department of Defense in charge of facilitating research in technology with potential military applications.

Project Veritas has obtained a separate report to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense written by U.S. Marine Corp Major, Joseph Murphy, a former DARPA Fellow. The report states that EcoHealth Alliance approached DARPA in March 2018, seeking funding to conduct gain of function research of bat borne coronaviruses. The proposal, named Project Defuse, was rejected by DARPA over safety concerns and the notion that it violates the basis gain of function research moratorium.

According to the documents, NAIAD, under the direction of Dr. Fauci, went ahead with the research in Wuhan, China and at several sites across the U.S. Dr. Fauci has repeatedly maintained, under oath, that the NIH and NAIAD have not been involved in gain of function research with the EcoHealth Alliance program. But according to documents obtained by Project Veritas…DARPA certainly classified the research as gain of function..”

“THE IMPLICATIONS HERE EXCEED THOSE OF THE PENTAGON PAPERS.” -DR. MALONE (video)

Why Joe Rogan’s Interviews on Mass Psychosis “Broke The Internet” shows that Rogan’s interview with Dr. Robert Malone, founder of the mRNA technology, discussed the new concept of “mass psychosis” and set the internet on fire. The article says:

“While Malone lost 512,000 followers on Twitter when they suspended his account, it’s rumored his interview with Rogan has garnered some 50 MILLION views across alternative free-speech platforms. “

Congressional Members send letters to CDC, Secretaries of Defense and Health and Human Services demanding answers on COVID-19 origin and DARPA documents revealed by Project Veritas

“Members of both chambers of Congress have sent scathing letters to government officials seeking answers in the aftermath of military documents uncovered by Project Veritas which revealed a proposal from EcoHealth Alliance to research bat-borne coronaviruses that was rejected by DARPA and a potential cover-up of those documents.

The letter from members of Congress comes on the heels of a similar inquiry made by Senator Ron Johnson.”

Senator Johnson Demands Answers from DoD on Disclosure About COVID-19 Origins and Early Treatment

On January 11, 2022, Sen. Johnson sent a letter to Department of Defense Secretary and Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering demanding information on the disclosure from U.S. Marine Corps Major Joseph Murphy.

“Sen. Ron Johnson moderates a panel discussion with world-renowned doctors and medical experts, providing different perspectives on the global pandemic response, the current state of knowledge of early and hospital treatment, vaccine efficacy and safety, what went right, what went wrong, what should be done now, and what needs to be addressed long term.”

“The Spectacular Failure of COVID Shots”, the article by Dr. Joseph Mercola on January 25, 2022 was deleted in 48 hours because of political pressure.

“At this point, there is simply no question. The COVID shots are an abysmal failure in every way possible. Again and again, data analyses from around the world show a negative correlation between ‘vaccination’ rates and worsening infection rates and other health trends.

There’s No Rationale for Passports and Mandates

Among the latest data sets to show this are official statistics from the U.K. government. Its ‘National Flu and COVID-19 Surveillance Report: 13 January 2022 (Week 2)’1 shows COVID infection rates in the U.K. are higher among the ‘fully vaccinated” in all adult cohorts. Infection growth rates are also rising faster among the fully vaxxed than in unvaccinated cohorts of all ages. All in all, these data prove that vaccine passports and mandates are completely pointless and nothing more than a coercion tool. In no way do they reduce infection rates, hospitalizations or deaths from COVID. Regardless of how many shots a person has received, they’re still getting infected and transmitting it. Plus, we know the jabbed are veritable incubators for mutating strains. Everything about this mass vaccination campaign is detrimental to public health.

Far Higher Infection Rates Among the Fully Jabbed

Using U.K. government data, a Twitter user named Don Wolt created a series of helpful graphs that he posted January 16, 2022.2 The graph below shows the differences in infection rates by age and vaccination status, and it is really telling. Across the board, with the exception perhaps of the 80+ age group, the fully jabbed have significantly higher rates of COVID infection, completely decimating the myth that we’re in a ‘pandemic of the unvaccinated.’ Clearly, that is not the case.”

World Renowned Conventional Doc Blasts The COVID JAB-Erwocks links to an interview with Dr. Peter McCullough, former Vice Chief of Internal Medicine, Baylor University Medical Center. The article says Dr. McCullough “might be the world’s top cardiologist, who also holds an MPH degree and is a professor of medicine. His work/background is totally stunning, and seems impossible for one person.”

“One horrific injustice noted is that people are not being fully informed of the vaccine risks, nor of the volume of serious reactions. Official propaganda says ‘Safe’”.

Dr. McCullough explains that if a new drug causes five deaths, it gets a “Black Box Warning”. At 50 deaths, a new drug is called off the market. The 1976 SARS vaccine program was stopped after 25 deaths. Dr. McCullough is a strong advocate of the importance of early treatments for COVID

Dr. McCullough discusses the blood clots for which the J&J product was halted and points out that the blood clots caused by the mRNA vaccine are “probably 30 times that” — but it has not been halted. Dr. McCullouogh says “…keep in mind that the NIH is a co-owner of the Moderna patent.”

When Dr. Robert Malone, inventor of the mRNA technology used in the Pfizer and Moderna COVID shots, was interviewed on The HighWire (video) in June 2021, he called for an immediate halt to the COVID shots. Why Joe Rogan’s Interviews on Mass Psychosis “Broke The Internet” shows that when Dr. Malone was interviewed on by Joe Rogan (video), he said 500,000 Americans may have died unnecessarily from COVID because the US government blocked access to early treatment.

Dr. McCullough explained that COVID policy should have included four phases. Phase 1 of Contagion Control could have included recommendations that the public get more vitamin D. Phase 2 of early home treatment for people who got COVID could have included the protocol (hydroxychloroquine, zinc, azithromycin) developed by Dr. Vladimir Zelenko who has been nominated for the Nobel Prize in medicine. The Zelenko Protocol has been adopted by seven nations. He has trained thousands of doctors around the world and together they have saved millions of COVID patients.

However, the COVID “health” policies focused only on Phase 3 (hospitalization) and Phase 4 (COVID shots) — both of which have proved to be ineffective and dangerous. This massive failure of public health policy was easily preventable but the government officials silenced all discussion except the focus on the COVID shots which they continue to say are necessary, “safe and effective” and try to mandate.

In the video below, Dr. McCullough and Dr. Malone explain how the Trusted News Initiative has censored vital information about early COVID treatment and the dangers of the COVID shots.

HOW MEDICAL/SCIENCE CENSORSHIP WAS CREATED, AND MORE – DRS PETER MCCULLOUGH AND ROBERT MALONE (video)

“The Trusted News Initiative (TNI) is an agreement signed by ALL MAJOR MEDIA & TV NETWORKS including YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and others. TNI’s hidden agenda was: ‘aggressively promote global vaccination at all costs and CENSOR anything else that hinders this initiative’. Without TNI, the ‘pandemic’ could never have happened as the effective, safe, and inexpensive Covid treatments would have rendered vaccines unnecessary!”

Dr. Malone announced his new book Lies My Gov’T Told Me and The Better Future Coming which will be published on June 7. It can be pre-ordered now on Amazon which says:

“With contributions from eminent doctors, scientists, and experts in their fields, Lies My Gov’t Told Me offers a comprehensive look at the coronavirus pandemic. Challenging the mainstream government-pharma-media narrative, this book will not only outrage readers, but will also inform and give readers hope.”

RFK’s book now has over 9,400 reviews on Amazon. It is a best seller on the lists of New York Times, Wall Street Journal, USA Today, and Amazon.
• Will The “Dirty 16” Be Convicted of Genocide?
• More Than 200,000 Have Already Died From the COVID Jab in the US
• VIDEO: Israeli immunologist admits to several mistakes made during COVID-19 pandemic
• THE NARRATIVE IS CRUMBLING – 16 REASONS WHY (video)

Become a Patron!

 Or support us at SubscribeStar

 Donate cryptocurrency HERE

Subscribe to Activist Post for truth, peace, and freedom news. Follow us on Telegram, HIVE, Flote, Minds, MeWe, Twitter, Gab, What Really Happened and GETTR.



Provide, Protect and Profit from what’s coming! Get a free issue of Counter Markets today.