Here are some news stories that might be of interest. Most articles will be more or less summarized in the headline. You can skim the headlines and summaries, and click the links if they are of interest. Keep in mind, many of these reports are products of the Fake News, so although they will be what people are hearing and talking about, there is no guarantee any one of them is necessarily correct, and we have had cases of outright lies make it onto these pages, especially about President Trump.

No Q. You can see Q’s posts aggregated live, and new ones which may have gone live after our print deadline at http://www.qanon.pub

Second County clerk steps forward with devastating evidence against Soros-backed Secretary of State Jena Griswold in Colorado lawsuit. Basically this second clerk says like Tina Peters, they heard the update to Dominion machines was wiping data, so they created copies of all their election data before Griswold and Dominion could come in and mess with the machines.

Arizona State Representative Walt “Beta” Blackman and his unhinged wife Kristie allegedly tried to FRAME The Gateway Pundit with a RACIAL HATE CRIME against their own daughter by texting her racial slurs.

Read this twitter thread courtesy of a commenter, to the end. I have no idea what to make of his account, but if we take it at face value, his description of the entire group having their work shitcanned fits perfectly, and I am gong to use this to emphasize a point regulars will probably be sick of by now. I have a few readers I talk with who say they find my proposal of a massive surveillance operation the size of the Stasi, and sectorized, neighborhood by neighborhood, interesting, but they aren’t fully there – that it could be that big and on everyone. You have to understand two things. First is what is at stake and how much it means to these people. There are two parts to that. The power and wealth they get if they pull this off every day, and how that is their life blood. These are people who cannot live their own lives peacefully – they need the power. And the second part of the first part is the fact that if it is uncovered, they risk being hunted and killed in the most brutal way possible. That gives you an idea how important this conspiracy is to these people. The second thing you have to grasp is, once they are in, there is no way to do this half-assed. You are all in, and you have to do it that extensively. So they have everything to gain, and everything to lose, and the only way to do it, is to do it 110%. And look at what they face. Random autists, who can spontaneously assemble privately on their own, and unravel everything from their computer in their den. You can’t be guaranteed of picking up on that just by hanging out in the hotspots. They may not cross a hotspot. You have to be everywhere. You have to know everyone, watch everyone. You have to be watching everyone – your very life depends upon it. It is how it is – a law of nature – like gravity. I am not saying, “Holy shit some crazy fuck built this!” I’m saying if (they) exist, (and by now you have to realize they do) – they have to have built this. The Jewish artist girlfriend sent in by her parents to seduce a kid for this is a thing. The long term sleeper wife, married to a target, having kids with a target, is a thing. That is how into it these people are. The thread is interesting if true. Sidney Powell promoted something which may have been damaging, and made it a focus of our side’s evidentiary support. Add it to the fact our all-knowing God-Emperor sidestepped her attempts to bring him into her plans with Bryne, and Flynn too. If they hacked the election, given the size of this thing, they will have left scant evidence, and catching them would require a counter-intelligence operation of an enormous scale. I doubt amateurs would be able to do it, and anyone proffering data would have to be suspect, since this is the intelligence realm. It is tempting to think the tweeter could have done something different, but there is only one thing they could have done, which is what Q said, and that is archive everything offline, on air-gapped drives, as it was accumulated. No matter how they met, the network would have picked up on them where they met. No matter how few linked up, each was being watched themselves from a house down their street before they met, so it would have picked up on them as a group, whether one or ten, because this thing was designed to pick up on every one of them, had already picked up on every one of them, before this began. What online service they used, Google, Github, discord, whatever, was immaterial. They could have run their own comms on their own server with their own storage. If it was connected to the internet, the observation post next door, or down the street, would be taken over by a specialist team, and they would crash the server remotely so it couldn’t be recovered, while watching them live in their house as the server went down. The only option would be archive everything, at every step, on multiple drives offline. And even then they will break into your residence to trash them, and if you carry them on your person, you had better be ready to kill to keep them, because you see how not being ready to kill worked out for Seth Rich when he tried to keep his flash drive on his person. I think you can begin to see what Q meant when he said the military is the only option. These people have everything to gain, everything to lose, and they are playing like it, in a way normal people would never think would be normal. But it is. The two bright lights in this are Q and Trump. So far both appear to have been right, on things only someone ready to win could have been prepared to be right on.

Democratic Senators unveil legislation to change the Electoral Count Act. They want to lessen the VP’s power, and make it more difficult for legislators to object to electors.

An NSA watchdog has found the agency failed to follow both court-approved and internal procedures designed to prevent officials from using a controversial foreign surveillance law to inappropriately monitor Americans’ communications. Snowden tweets, “This has happened year after year since the program began.” And yet Snowden has to know there is another program, much, much worse, that would ignite real rebellion if it were revealed, but he never discusses it.

In about-face, Israeli police appear to admit misuse of NSO phone hacking tech to spy on regular citizens.

US judge asks Prince Andrew’s ex-assistant to give testimony in sex abuse case.

Just as Epstein took Victoria’s Secret models who didn’t get contracts, groomed them, and appeared to use them to run his blackmail operation, Hugh Hefner ran satellite Playboy mansions which took wannabe Playboy girls, offered them fake contracts, drugged them, and turned them into “escorts.” Escorts in this case being a euphemism for honeypots.

From here: “Far-left Rep. Ilhan Omar was secretly funneled large amounts of cash that was intended for starving children, the FBI has confirmed. Feeding Our Future received a whopping $197.9 million in 2021 to provide food to starving Minnesota children impacted by COVID-19 restrictions. However, the FBI recently raided the charity’s headquarters and found that none of this money was actually spent feeding kids. Instead, the bureau discovered the nonprofit conspired with local businesses to falsify records and funnel the money into private accounts, including Ilham Omar’s bank account.”

The Gothenburg, Scandinavia’s largest Film festival, is playing 20 minutes of hypnosis ahead of the featured ahead of featured films, “as an experiment.”

Old NY Post article from 2016 with some interesting MK Ultra tidbits, and the relation to Jason Bourne.

9/11 video which appears to be CGI. File under, “What is true?”

Federally-funded study pays gay and transgender children to report sexual activity. And among them is probably a future Governor or Senator, who’s blackmail file will have all that in it.

Ex-Trump press secretary Kayleigh McEnany hands over texts to Jan. 6 panel. She did get the celebrity treatment, which is always suspicious.

Establishment Republicans are allowing Democrats redistricting victories to try and keep the Cabal in power. All of that should be being fought tooth and nail.

Democrat Senator Ben Ray Luján hospitalized after suffering a stroke, no word on when he will return to the 50:50 Senate. Vax?

Alberta towing companies reject requests to supply trucks to RCMP to tow trucker’s vehicles.

1 million signatures to remove Justin Trudeau, end the lockdown and Covid mandates.

Pfizer asks FDA to authorize COVID vaccine for kids 6 months through 4 years.

An FDA Advisory Committee will be meeting on February 15 to discuss authorizing the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for kids aged 6 months through 4 years of age.

CDC tells people not to take Ivermectin, makes it sound dangerous, and tells them to take the vaccines.

Former Blackrock fund manager Edward Dowd says Moderna and Pfizer could turn into the next Enron, and on Wall Street investors are skeptical of everything that has happened with the vaxxes and the Emergency Use Authorizations.

The Covid lockdowns had ‘little to no public health effect,’ analysis of 24 studies concludes. People self isolate when ill.

The protection people experience after recovering from COVID-19, known widely as natural immunity, lasts for at least 18 months, according to a recently published study.

A 33 year old man died Jan. 28 after doctors say his second COVID vaccine caused an immune response that led to the development of an autoimmune disease. Diagnosis was HLH, where the immune system begins attacking your own body.

White House recommends Spotify do more to censor Joe Rogan. I tried to find the tweet Trump retweeted from Dan Scavino of the protestor with his feet on fire, and footloose playing in the back ground, and it has been wiped everywhere.

Quebec Premier François Legault has scrapped his proposed tax on the unvaccinated.

White House is terrified Biden, 79, will get COVID because it will show vaccines aren’t fully effective and will be used against him after he promised to ‘shut down the virus.

Phasing out animal agriculture could potentially stabilize greenhouse gas levels for decades, according to new model. You can use gene transfer to get plants to grow things inside them that are biologically active in mammals without affecting the plant, and without anybody noticing. You can bulk mix chemicals that are biologically active in mammals in prepared foods, and people will not notice one more ingredient. But you can’t do that in meat harvested from mammals. You would have to inject it in every single steak and piece of meat.

Dozens involved in wild brawl over alleged steak shortage at Golden Corral.

National debt of the U.S. has passed the $30 trillion mark.

North Carolina fertilizer plant on fire, evacuations extend out one mile, chance of ammonium nitrate exploding.

An anon on Q’s board noted the following explosions at large facilities lately. Those larger facilities might hide something like a server farm or central command center, as all offer cover for perimeter security, constant shift changes, and high levels of power consumption. Of course they can also affect stock and commodity prices:

Biden’s nominee to be Judge of Central District of California won’t answer whether racial discrimination against Asians is wrong under questioning from Ted Cruz.

Biden says of a new SC Justice, “And, you know, there’s always a renewed national debate every time we nominate — any president nominates — a justice, because the Constitution is always evolving slightly in terms of additional rights or curtailing rights, etc.,” he added. “And it’s always an issue. And there are several schools of thought in terms of judicial philosophy, and we’ll see.”

Biden regime RESCINDS deportation of illegal alien who killed a 19-year-old girl in new program to reduce removals.

George W. Bush maxes out political donations to Trump impeachment supporters Liz Cheney and Lisa Murkowski.

Reuters runs cover with a “fact check” – No evidence UK Labor’s Keir Starmer was directly involved in failing to prosecute pedophile Jimmy Savile. He was just head of the prosecution service.

Guy goes magnet fishing in Miami off a bridge, and pulls up two Barrett 50 cal lowers with the serials filed off.

AOC reveals she’s quit Twitter after getting anxiety over negative tweets.

Former Sen. Barbara Boxer is now working for a Chinese surveillance firm, Hikvision.

Swiss man legally declares himself a woman to retire with his pension 1 year early.

Whoopi Goldberg suspended from “The View” after saying the Holocaust was “not about race.”

President Volodymyr Zelensky: “This is not going to be a war between Ukraine and Russia; this is going to be a European war, a fully-fledged war.”

U.S. General Mark Milley urges Russia “to stand down,” says “the military capability of NATO is very, very significant.” Russia seems cool to the idea of war, but the West is certainly pushing it.

Paging Tex: Missile silo designed to withstand nuclear strike on sale for $380K.

A novel opioid trial against a drugmaker CEO could put executives in the painkiller space on alert and deter companies from pursuing innovative medications for fear of liability.

Rep. Thomas Massie says Republicans MUST defund Biden’s illegal back door federal gun registry, where ATF is accumulating and digitizing gun dealer records.

Soros calls for regime change in China. Trouble in Cabal-paradise.

We are fortunate to be getting regular statements from President Donald J. Trump to lift our spirits, which we can post here, straight from his News Aggregator on his website located here, complete with its own news stories. You can also get more statements from President Trump via email by signing up here.

So pathetic to watch the Unselect Committee of political hacks, liars, and traitors work so feverishly to alter the Electoral College Act so that a Vice President cannot ensure the honest results of the election, when just one year ago they said that “the Vice President has absolutely no right to ensure the true outcome or results of an election.” In other words, they lied, and the Vice President did have this right or, more pointedly, could have sent the votes back to various legislators for reassessment after so much fraud and irregularities were found. If it were sent back to the legislators, or if Nancy Pelosi, who is in charge of Capitol security, had taken my recommendation and substantially increased security, there would have been no “January 6” as we know it! Therefore, the Unselect Committee should be investigating why Nancy Pelosi did such a poor job of overseeing security and why Mike Pence did not send back the votes for recertification or approval, in that it has now been shown that he clearly had the right to do so!

So pathetic to watch the Unselect Committee of political hacks, liars, and traitors work so feverishly to alter the Electoral College Act so that a Vice President cannot ensure the honest results of the election, when just one year ago they said that “the Vice President has absolutely no right to ensure the true outcome or results of an election.” In other words, they lied, and the Vice President did have this right or, more pointedly, could have sent the votes back to various legislators for reassessment after so much fraud and irregularities were found. If it were sent back to the legislators, or if Nancy Pelosi, who is in charge of Capitol security, had taken my recommendation and substantially increased security, there would have been no “January 6” as we know it! Therefore, the Unselect Committee should be investigating why Nancy Pelosi did such a poor job of overseeing security and why Mike Pence did not send back the votes for recertification or approval, in that it has now been shown that he clearly had the right to do so!

President Donald J. Trump’s Political Committees Announce OVER $122 Million Cash on Hand, with over $51 Million Raised from Jul 1-Dec 31, 2021

Spread r/K Theory, because in guerilla warfare you use your enemies’ resources against them.