Upcoming Documentary Shows Ballot Harvester Who ‘Made 53 Trips to 20 Dropboxes’ Before Election Night in 2020

An upcoming documentary produced by author Dinesh D’Souza and Catherine Engelbrecht of True the Vote exposes the immense amount of ballot harvesting that occurred before the fraud-riddled presidential election in 2020.

The documentary, 2,000 Mules, features research from the ballot harvesting operation that went on before the presidential election. Researchers used cell-phone geotracking and Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests in order to document what was apparently a well-funded and well-coordinated ballot stuffing operation. One of the ballot harvesters reportedly made 53 trips to 20 ballot dropboxes before the election.

The trailer for the upcoming documentary can be seen here:

President Donald Trump has commented on the documentary project and given it his endorsement.

“Highly respected Dinesh D’Souza, working together with Catherine Engelbrecht of True the Vote, just released a trailer to their new movie, “2,000 Mules,” that shows the world exactly how the 2020 Presidential Election was Rigged and Stolen. The movie exposes the lies of the Democrats, RINOs, and Fake News who say it was the “most secure election in history.” It was, perhaps, the least secure in history,” Trump said in a statement through his Save America PAC.

“The ballot box was stuffed, and stuffed like never before—and it’s all on video. Ballots were trafficked and sold in a massive operation in each Swing State. The evidence is so damning, what will the cowards who sat and did nothing about the stolen election say now? The way our votes were taken away is a disgrace to our Nation. It must be fixed,” he added.

Big League Politics has reported on the many reports of illegal ballot harvesting that allegedly occurred during the 2020 presidential election:

“A disability service coordinator in the area around Milwaukee, Wisc. has come forward to blow the whistle about how disabled people were vote harvested by Democrat operatives. They apparently had no problem exploiting these vulnerable individuals to make sure they voted Biden whether they wanted to or not.

Dan O’Donnell at News Talk 1130 told the story of this whistleblower who is coming forward to expose the ruthlessness of Democrat Party activists who have made a mockery of the electoral process.

“I haven’t been able to see them in person since March because of COVID, but we do Zoom calls regularly,” said the whistleblower, going by the alias of “Susan” to protect her identity against potential left-wing terror. “Right after the election, one of my clients said that he voted for Biden but didn’t want to.”

“He told me that he was sad Biden won because Biden would make his social security payments go down,” Susan added. “I asked him why he voted for Biden if he was worried about that and he said that one of his helpers had filled out his ballot for him.”

After Susan heard the story, she believed that a staff member at the group home may have been responsible. Susan became alarmed when she started hearing the same story repeatedly from her disabled clients.

“I got curious after the first few told me what happened to them so I asked every one of my clients and every single one voted for Biden,” she said. “One gentleman told me, ‘Yeah, they just handed me a ballot that was already filled out.’”

What Susan is describing is an illegal act under state law. Wisconsin Statute 6.875 bars staff members at nursing homes and assisted living facilities from helping patients with their absentee or mail-in ballots. Instead, two “special voting deputies” must be appointed by a municipal clerk or local elections board to oversee absentee voting in these locations.“

The reality of voter fraud is getting harder to deny. By the time it is all said and done, vote fraud deniers will be remembered among history’s worst deniers.