Former President Donald Trump on Tuesday endorsed South Carolina state Rep. Russell Fry in his bid to unseat congressional representative Tom Rice for Myrtle Beach’s seat in Congress.

“Russell Fry, who is all in for the Palmetto State, has my Complete and Total Endorsement. VOTE TOM RICE OUT NOW!” Trump wrote in a statement.

“America First Champion Russell Fry has been a leading fighter on Election Integrity, is pro-Life, pro-God, pro-Gun and, very importantly, pro-LOW Taxes,” Trump said. “As Chief Majority Whip in South Carolina, he led the charge in passing the Open Carry Act, and also succeeded with the Religion is Essential Act. Russell loves our Military and our Vets—he is strong on Border Security and Crime.”

The News & Observer reported that conservative social media personality Graham Allen dropped out of the same race on Friday following a conversation with former President Trump.

Allen himself gave out a statement Friday in which he explained that while he had originally joined the race against Tom Rice in order to offer a “strong challenger” who is not against the ‘Make America Great Again’ agenda.

“Other conservative candidates have emerged, including at least one with deep ties to the region who is strong enough to beat Tom Rice,” Allen said in the statement, without naming any specific candidates.

“President Trump has already endorsed against (Rep.) Liz Cheney (R-WY) and most of the other impeachment RINOs,” Allen said. “And he will endorse against Tom Rice soon enough. When he does, we must be united.”

The former President roasted Congressman Rice for his tendencies to join up and work with Democrats, particularly in voting for Trump’s second impeachment in 2021.

“Congressman Tom Rice of South Carolina, the coward who abandoned his constituents by caving to Nancy Pelosi and the Radical Left, and who actually voted against me on Impeachment Hoax #2, must be thrown out of office ASAP-and we have just the man to do it!” Trump had said when endorsing Fry.

Fry himself was very happy to receive Trump’s endorsement:

Reactions to the endorsement by supporters of the former President have been mixed. While many of Trump’s supporters continue to be loyal and trust his judgment, others have suggested that Trump listened to “establishment” Republicans when picking Fry; in other words, they believe the election of ‘Representative Fry’ won’t be much different than that of ‘RINO Rice.’

“He’s messing in local politics and he shouldn’t because he doesn’t know much about local politics,” said Peggie Andrews Bushey, a conservative Trump supporter and local resident who helps moderate the “Horry County Conservative Republicans” Facebook page.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.