China Cracks Down on Use of Gay Sex App Grindr Before Winter Olympics

China is cracking down on Grindr, the LGBT degeneracy sex app, before the Winter Olympics are set to commence in the country.

Reports have indicated that Grindr has disappeared from several app stores, including Apple and Android in China. This comes as China has instituted a month-long crackdown against subversive content before the Winter Olympics come to Beijing.

The Chinese have reported that the crackdown is being instituted to “create a civilized, healthy, festive and auspicious online atmosphere for public opinion during the lunar new year.” They also banned prominent LGBT rights activists from their WeChat app last year.

Big League Politics has reported on China’s firm resistance against LGBT degeneracy that is currently ravaging the West:

“The Chinese government is directing television channels and media companies to stop promoting K-pop-style “sissy pants” men, with the government of the country pointing to the celebrities as a harmful influence upon youth.

In guidance released on Thursday, the Chinese government urged broadcasters to firmly reject the “deformed aesthetics” of niangpao, a term used to describe effeminate men. Celebrities and musicians who adopt the imagery of Korean pop stars have become increasingly popular in China. Celebrity culture has a following in China that surpasses the mindless worship of vapid western celebrities, with social media controversies stirring up constantly over infractions of singers and celebrities.

The move is one of several in recent months to promote the development of masculinity among China’s young men. The Chinese Communist Party recently instituted programs to promote sports education in China’s schools, and is moving to combat video game addiction by limiting the amount of time children can spend playing video games every day. China’s education ministry has released material attacking what it calls the “feminisation” of Chinese young men, pointing to what it’s describing as insidious western cultural influence as responsible. One politician described young Chinese men as becoming “weak, timid, and self-abasing.”

The Chinese government has increasingly taken a hardline stance against attempts to promote LGBT propaganda in the country, removing accounts from the state-regulated social media platform Weibo that were caught promoting the lifestyle to youth. Depictions of homosexuality are not authorized on Chinese television channels.“

While China is often portrayed as an evil repressive empire, the fact that their leaders will stand up for the moral sanctity of their people is perhaps something that decadent Westerners can learn from.