Donald Trumphas had an iron grip on the GOP since 2016. Any noise made about opposing Trump by a Republican official or candidate was met with furious tweets, many of which led to defeat on the ballots come election time.

That hold, however, appears to be slipping. In recent campaigns by Trump-backed candidates for governor, Senate, and the House of Representatives, fundraising hauls are outpaced by their opponents, including some high-profile names most notable recently for their opposition to Trump. Those candidates who participated in Trump’s insurrection incitement aren’t faring well, either.

‘In spite of winning an early Trump endorsement in his Senate campaign, Alabama Republican Rep. Mo Brooks raised less than $400,000 from October through December and has less than $2 million in the bank for his struggling campaign. This may explain why he parted ways with his former campaign manager in November.’

Vice further noted that “every single one of the House candidates Trump has endorsed against a GOP incumbent is getting shellacked in fundraising.” This includes the challenger to Liz Cheney in Wyoming, who sits on the January 6 committee and has been quite vocal in her opposition to the former president.

‘Trump antagonist and Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney hauled in $2 million in the last three months, a massive haul for a House race in an off-year election, and has $4.7 million in the bank. Her Trump-backed primary opponent, Harriet Hageman raised $443,000—what would normally be considered a significant sum—but has just $380,000 cash on hand.’

Some of Trump’s more outrageous picks, including former football star Herschel Walker, who has no experience in lawmaking and lives in Texas while running in Georgia against Rev. Sen. Raphael Warnock.

‘Even strong-performing Trump allies are getting lapped in fundraising. Trump-backed Georgia Republican Senate candidate Herschel Walker raised almost $5.4 million in the past three months and has about the same amount in the bank. That’s a huge haul, but Georgia Democratic Sen. Raphael Warnock far outpaced him, bringing in $9.8 million in the same time period. Warnock has $22.9 million in the bank for what’s sure to be one of this cycle’s most expensive Senate races.’