The SNP’s Westminster leader was ordered to leave the House of Commons on Monday afternoon after making the claim as MPs grilled Boris Johnson over the Sue Gray report.

Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle repeatedly asked him to withdraw the accusation, as it is considered against parliamentary etiquette to make such an assertion.

Mr Blackford replied: “It’s not my fault if the Prime Minister can’t be trusted to tell the truth.”

Amid raucous shouting from the Tory benches, the Speaker said: “Under the power given to me by standing order number 43 I order the honourable member to withdraw immediately from the House.”

Mr Blackford walked out of the chamber before the Speaker had finished, with Sir Lindsay noting: “It’s all right, we don’t need to bother.”

The Ross, Skye and Lochaber MP was asked about the controversy as he appeared on breakfast TV on Tuesday morning.

“No, it wasn’t a stunt, it wasn’t premeditated,” he told BBC Breakfast.

“If I were to be in trouble because I’ve spoken the truth yet the man that has repeatedly told lies, the man that has sought to cover up everything that’s going on, the man that has misled parliament, sits there,” he said.

“I’m to be punished because I’ve stood up for my constituents and stood up for the millions of people in the United Kingdom that feel real anger.

“I have a duty to do what I have been sent to Westminster to do.”

He told ITV’s Good Morning Britain he took "no pleasure in having to leave the chamber" after he refused to back down.

“It seems, I have to say, slightly perverse that I'm the one that is to be thrown out of the House of Commons on the basis of standing up and telling the truth,” he said.

“Now, if I had withdrawn what I'd said yesterday in the House of Commons I would have been guilty of doing what the Prime Minister has done, and that would have been lying to everybody watching.

“One of these days the Prime Minister is going to have to accept that he has abused the trust that was put in him when he became Prime Minister. He should have gone by now.

“And this morning, my message to Tory MPs, they're going to have to do the job because, quite simply, this man is not fit for purpose. He's not fit to be Prime Minister.”

Several senior Tories came out to back the Prime Minister on Tuesday, in wake of Ms Gray's report being released and Downing Street being investigated by the police over allegations of lockdown-busting parties.

The included Scotland Secretary Alister Jack, told the BBC's Good Morning Scotland: “I want the right person to run this country and I believe Boris Johnson is an excellent Prime Minister.”