Phoenix Police on Tuesday released video from a stolen car investigation where an officer punched a teen girl:

The Phoenix Police Department is aware of a cell phone video circulating that depicts a moment in time of an event. In an effort to share the facts, we are releasing some of the body worn camera to provide more context, as well as the following factual information.

On January 31st, at about 4:30 p.m., a caller reported to 911 that they were following their car that had previously been reported stolen. Officers located the car with several people inside. The car turned into an apartment complex near 59th Avenue and McDowell Road. Four men got out of the car. As officers were taking them into custody, people began gathering around, several of them filming the officers. Other officers told onlookers they needed to stay back during the arrests. One of the men being arrested punched an officer in the face, and grabbed onto the officer’s gun. Other officers helped to restrain the man.

A female, who officers later learned was 13-years-old, approached the officers as they were still detaining people. She was warned multiple times to get back. She walked in front of officers as they were trying to put one of the men in the backseat of a police car and was moved out of the way by an officer.

The female then passed by the officers who ordered her to stay back, and quickly approached two officers who had a man in custody. A female officer saw her approaching the officers and grabbed her arm to pull her back. The female swung her arm at the female officer, striking the female officer on the right side of the face. The officer’s body worn camera was knocked off at that time, and can be seen, on other officer’s body camera videos, flying off of her vest. The female officer responded to being hit by striking the female in the face.

The female was evaluated for minor injuries and was booked into the Juvenile Correction Center on one count of aggravated assault on a police officer.

This incident is currently under review by the Phoenix Police Department. We are continuing to gather information and ask anyone who may have additional information to please contact us.