The action, by the so-called Freedom Convoy, caused severe traffic delays on a long stretch of highway from the city of Lethbridge, Alberta, 65 miles to the Canada-US border crossing in the village of Coutts, Alberta.

The demo comes after the convoy staged a fourth day of linked protests in the nation’s capital of Ottawa in opposition to prime minister Justin Trudeau’s requirement for unvaccinated cross-border truckers to quarantine.

Mr Trudeau denounced the protests in a televised press conference amid concerns about the behaviour of some of those involved.

Police have opened investigations into some incidents connected to the protest, including footage of a woman dancing on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the National War Memorial.

Nazi symbolism was also reported to have been seen on some protest signs, while a homeless shelter reported that demonstrators demanded it feed them.

Mr Trudeau, who revealed on Monday he has tested positive for Covid, said: "Canadians were shocked and quite frankly disgusted by the behaviour displayed by some people in our nation's capital.

He added: “We won't give in to those who fly racist flags. We won't cave to those who engage in vandalism or dishonour the memory of our veterans.”

At the border blockade in Alberta, police ordered truckers to move and stop disrupting traffic on the major crossing.

Canadian trucker John Schwarz told media he had been caught in the gridlock for 40 hours while coming back from Idaho.

"These guys are basically holding us hostage, and nobody's doing anything about it," Mr Schwarz told CBC News on Monday morning.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said later Monday that some of the truckers had been persuaded to leave.

"Some of these guys have been stuck here for three days, and you know, no access to shower [or] food and away from their families. So it's good news for them,” RCMP Cpl. Curtis Peters said.

Protest organisers have called for the elimination of all Covid restrictions and vaccine mandates and for the removal of Prime Minister Trudeau.

However, many of the coronavirus restrictions were put in place by provincial governments.