CBS Essentials is created independently from the CBS News staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.

Spring break isn't here just yet, but the thought of warmer weather and longer days might have you finally ready for an adventure again. If you're thinking about a family trip soon -- a spring break beach trip or otherwise -- keep reading to check out the our favorite gear for a fun and safe vacation.

Whether you'll be road tripping to your destination or headed to the airport, there are plenty of little purchases to help make the journey go more smoothly. From an electronic cube with multiple built-in games, to some super handy hand sanitizer keychains to help keep everyone healthy, CBS Essentials has rounded up a list of the best gear to help you have a fun and safe family vacation.

With the travel industry still shrouded in uncertainty due to the ongoing pandemic, it's never a bad idea to stock up on extra N95 travel face masks for yourself and your kids, and grab a few COVID-19 tests to take with you on the road just in case.

Keep reading to check out some must-haves for your next family vacation.

This set of travel-sized, hand-sanitizer keychains comes with 20 holders in fun and eye-catching prints and patterns, along with 20 travel-sized flip cap bottles to fill with your favorite hand sanitizer. Clip these bottles to purses, backpacks, key rings and more to keep hands clean in style.

The Flashdash cube offers four built-in games kids or adults can enjoy. Try to chase the moving lights across the cube with the Chase Me game; press the right buttons before time runs out in Catch Me; memorize colors and light patterns with Follow Me; or repeat entire sequences with Remember Me.

Volume on the Flashdash can be adjusted or muted entirely, making it a smart game to bring on planes or in the car.

This sun-care pack from Sun Bum includes SPF 30 sunscreen lotion, SPF 30 sunscreen lip balm and an after-sun lotion with soothing aloe, all packed in a convenient canvas carrying bag.

As goofy as these glasses may appear, if you or a family member struggles with car, air or seasickness, Amazon reviewers say they might be worth a try. These glasses have no lenses, and the rims are filled with liquid that moves along with the vehicle, creating the false sense of a steady horizon that will reduce dizziness.

Still unsure about these funny-looking goggles? TikTok seems to love this travel hack. Watch user Theorchdorkteacher review anti-motion-sickness glasses here.

The Amazon Fire Kids tablet is a great way to let your kids enjoy screen time in a safe and controlled way. The Fire Kids tablet comes with one year of Amazon Kids+, which offers to more than 20,000 apps, games, books, videos, audiobooks and educational content from PBS Kids, Nickelodeon, Disney and more. Parental controls make it easy to set time limits and filter content, or allow access to extra apps available, such as Netflix, Minecraft, and Zoom.

The tablet comes in a child-proof case with a built-in stand, and a 2-year guarantee; if the tablet does break, Amazon will replace it for free.

These over-the-ear headphones promise up to 50 hours of battery life -- aka 50 hours of peace and quiet -- and feature noise-canceling and ambient-aware technology, to help you focus on your surroundings when needed, and tune it all out otherwise. Phone calls and virtual assistants such as Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant can be managed with the buttons on the ear cup.

This Hydro Flask bottle has a leak-proof, wide-mouth lid with a built-in straw. It can keep beverages cold for up to 24 hours, and -- importantly -- it's dishwasher safe and BPA-free.

For the parent looking for a better diaper bag, the Settlement Sprout backpack from Herschel Supply Co. is a stylish choice. This bag has all the standard backpack features, with a side pocket for a water bottle, a mesh accessory sleeve, and a front storage pocket. It includes built-in storage for diapers, wipes and toys, and it comes with a foldable changing mat that has a designated compartment.

Brics by Ulisse expandable spinners not only look great coming down the baggage carousel, but also weigh a reasonable 8-ish pounds, so they're easy to lift and claim. They effortlessly roll in any direction. Each suitcase has a TSA-approved lock to keep belongings safe. The hardshell style holds up well with travel, and there's a hidden name tag up top, so your suitcase can always be identified. Grab a Brics by Ulisse expandable spinner at Nordstrom Rack for more than 50% off right now.

This pack of travel bags includes six medium and six large compression bags, to help save up to 80% of space in your luggage. Fill the bag with the clothes you want to pack, seal the bag with the zipper, and then slowly roll the bag in on itself to compress the packed clothes. Need some help figuring it out? One TikTok user, Mylifesatravelmovie, posted a video explaining how this TikTok travel hack works. Check it out here.

Trade your standard cloth mask for a more protective N95 face mask while you're traveling. This pack of 20, available on Amazon, offers some of the best per-mask pricing available on the site.

This multi-layer, breathable KN95 mask can be purchased in a 10 pack (or more). This mask is designed to be approximately 15% smaller than the standard Powecom KN95, to better suit a child's face.

Planning a relaxing vacation by the sea? This large beach blanket is made out of parachute material; is equipped with anchor pockets to keep it in place on windier days; and can be compressed into an easily portable pouch, making it simple to pack without accidentally bringing a whole beach worth of sand back in your luggage.

The Hydro Flask Day Escape Pack provides up to 36 hours of cold insulation, is leak proof, and is designed as a backpack to make it easier to keep your provisions cool on the go. Great for road trips, hikes or a day at the beach.
• None 7 easy air fryer recipes for the NFL playoffs and Super Bowl (plus deals on air fryers)
• None Spring break 2022: What to pack for your next beach trip
• None COVID-19 testing kit tracker: How and where to find at-home coronavirus tests
• None Spring travel luggage roundup: The best carry-on bags, dopp kits and more
• None 5 products hit by rising inflation -- and how to spend less