The sanctions will target oligarchs with alleged links to the Russian government and will include asset freezes and travels bans.

Despite the plans, US State Department officials fear Russian money is now too entrenched in the capital, and any plans to hit back against oligarchs, are too late.

One US source told The Times: “The fear is that Russian money is so entrenched in London now that the opportunity to use it as leverage against Putin could be lost.”

A 2018 report by the House of Commons foreign affairs committee said London had become a base for corrupt assets.

The report read: “The use of London as a base for the corrupt assets of Kremlin-connected individuals is now clearly linked to a wider Russian strategy and has implications for our national security.”

Commenting on the new sanctions, a Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesperson said: “This will significantly improve our ability to hit Russia where it really hurts.

“Truss wants to put heft behind our warnings to the Kremlin that any incursion will come at a serious economic cost.”

Ministers will meet to discuss the plan on Monday before it is announced to MPs ahead of Boris Johnson’s trip to Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss will also travel to Moscow for talks with her counterpart, Sergei Lavrov amid fears 100,000 troops have massed on the border with Ukraine.

Speaking today, Sir John Sawers told the BBC's Today programme: "We know that from watching the American forces in Iraq in 2003 a major, sophisticated army can march to the capital and depose a government.

"The really difficult thing is to hold that territory. Ukraine is the size of Germany and France put together and 100,000 Russian troops could march to Kyiv but can they hold the country? I think the real long-term cost to Russia would be if the Ukrainian forces fought a long-term insurgency against any Russian occupation.

"I don't think it will come to that. I don't think the Russians will go that far, frankly, because they know they cannot occupy and hold Ukraine indefinitely so it's right that we build up the cost to Russia now, make clear both from the military side and an economic side that they will pay a price, to try to deter them from the option of a major invasion."

Although Ms Truss ruled out the possibility of UK troops fighting with Ukrainian forces, she indicated further defensive arms, such as fighter jets and warships, could be sent to the country.

As part of Operation Orbital, UK forces have trained 22,000 Ukrainian troops since 2015 and more military personnel have been sent this month to support.

Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula in 2014 and has supported pro-Kremlin rebels in the eastern Donbas region.

Commenting on the increased military presence on Ukraine’s border, Jens Stoltenberg, Nato’s secretary-general said: “What we see is a very significant Russian military build-up with more troops or more heavy equipment, but also threatening rhetoric.

“What Nato allies do is that we send a clear message to Russia that they should not use force and we’re also pursuing a diplomatic track to prevent them from doing so because it is in no one’s interest to have armed conflict in Europe.”