No matter what you’re looking to spend this Valentine’s Day, we suggest heading over to Nordstrom where you can peruse thousands of must-have Valentine’s Day gifts by price, person or style. Sifting through all of the options can be quite time-consuming, so we went ahead and picked our top-pick gifts, ranging from under $25 to $500 and over.

Want more ideas? Check out our Valentine’s Day gift ideas for him, for her and for anyone in a long-distance relationship as well as jewelry gifts and lingerie gifts.

Set the mood with this beautiful mini Voluspa candle that has sensual notes of suede, palo santo, patchouli, hemp, tobacco and vanilla.

You can’t go wrong with a pair of sexy lace panties for Valentine’s Day, and these are available in nine fun colors.

We’re all washing our hands extra these days, and it can do a number on your skin. Give the gift of soft, hydrated and smooth skin with Kiehl’s Ultimate Strength Hand Salve, which is formulated with botanical oils and natural wax derived from olive oil.

Your S.O. will love wrapping their feet in a pair of these super-soft bouclé Butter Crew Socks. Choose from a variety of colors, including marled gray, blush and black.

Help your valentine relax and drift off to a sound sleep with this lavender, honeysuckle and chamomile-scented sleep mist.

Leave little to the imagination with this daring lace bodysuit. Complete with a ribbon-tied halter neck, low back, waist-cinching belt and cheeky silhouette, it’s sexy and flattering in all the right places.

It is the holiday for kissing, so help your valentine achieve lusciously plump lips with Dior’s Addict Lip Maximizer Plumping Lip Gloss, which is available in six gorgeous shades, including berry, coral and shimmer bronze.

This cologne from Giorgio Armani is a bestseller for a reason — with notes of rosemary, tangerine, patchouli and cedarwood it smells refreshing, warm, sexy and clean.

Aside from the aforementioned lingerie, comfortable sleepwear is the next best Valentine’s Day gift, and this short-sleeve pajama set does not disappoint. Choose from a variety of fun prints and colors, including hearts, leopard and floral.

Because guys deserve sexy and comfortable underwear on Valentine’s Day too.

Staying stylish and warm all season long is easy with this wool blend beanie from Rag & Bone.

This designer eye shadow palette from Chanel features four vibrant hues that are easy to layer, mix and match and use to color, highlight and contour. Choose from 10 different color palettes.

The CozyChic bathrobe from Barefoot Dreams is just that! Its machine-washable microfiber fabric is soft and cozy, and its classic silhouette is elegant and chic.

Add a beatiful, timeless element to your decor with this silver-tone picture frame from Kate Spade that’s sweetly engraved with “Love Love Love” at the bottom.

A classic pair of gold-plated hoop earrings are timeless, delicate and easy to dress up or down.

This sleek leather strap watch is polished with a retro-style rectangular design that’s sure to elevate any outfit.

If your valentine enjoys cooking, then they’ll definitely cherish this cast-iron skillet from Le Creuset forever. It’s even dishwasher-friendly.

Upgrade your valentine’s classic tennis shoes with a fashionable pair of eco-conscious Veja V-10 Sneakers. These comfy unisex kicks are made from recycled fabric and leather sourced from Brazilian farms.

If your valentine is a fan of the Barefoot Dreams CozyChic bathrobe we mentioned above, then they’re sure to love the blanket version too. Equally as soft, plush and comfortable, this blanket is available in an array of patterns and colors.

With its minimalist design and fragrant notes of cedarwood, magnolia and amber, this aromatic perfume smells just as pretty as it looks.

A cult-favorite beauty product for good reason, the Supersonic can revolutionize their hair care routine, drying hair in half the time of normal hair dryers. Just check out our review here.

Everyone needs a pair of headphones, but the Bose Noise-Canceling 700 Over-Ear Headphones are a step above your average earbuds. Complete with an augmented reality audio system, these headphones use motion sensors and location data to tailor your experience while delivering crisp sound and music.

Does she already have the Supersonic? Dyson’s Corrale Straightener is lightweight, incredibly sleek and a must-have for any hair-obsessed valentine. Although pricey, this straightener is full of cool settings to help style hair faster with less damage, frizz and flyaways.

This colorful cookware set is not only stylish, but it also features nontoxic and nonstick ceramic coating that ensures you’ll never cook with harsh chemicals or toxins. Sounds like a culinary win to us.

If you’re looking to give your valentine a classic gift this holiday, you can’t go wrong with diamonds, pearls — or both! We especially love how timeless and dainty these David Yurman earrings are.

This 300-thread-count organic cotton duvet and shams set from Boll & Branch is the ultimate luxury when it comes to bedding. Choose from all white, all pewter or white with an elegant pewter border.

There’s a reason this luxury moisturizing cream has over 5,000 5-star customer reviews — it’s proven to firm and smooth skin, minimize pores and reduce lines and wrinkles. Plus, it deeply hydrates and repairs dry skin.

Your valentine can wear their heart on their sleeve with this gorgeous Swiss-made Tissot watch.

Any fashion-loving valentine will be ecstatic to receive this impeccably chic and trendy Loewe Logo Straw Tote. It’s a summer essential that they can carry from the beach to the pool and everywhere in between.

What’s better than a diamond necklace? A pearl one to pair perfectly with it. Now you no longer have to decide between a touch of shimmer and a touch of gloss with this layered set.

Adventure awaits! Travel in major style with this Rimowa Essential Large Wheeled Suitcase that’s sleek, spacious and, most importantly, extremely lightweight.