Curious about what your fellow CNN Underscored readers are buying? Every month we’ll round up our readers’ favorite products — those products readers like you scooped up the most over the past 30 days.

Welcome to 2022! The first month of the year saw readers shopping for products to stay healthy, sleep soundly and beat the winter blues. From smart scales to travel backpacks, check out the 20 products Underscored readers loved most in January.

The No. 1 slot, for obvious reasons, is this FDA-authorized at-home rapid test for Covid-19 that’s suitable for ages 2 and up.

With its clear display, excellent sound and ability to set up to three dependable alarms, you can rest easy knowing Jall’s digital clock is on your nightstand. It’s our pick for the best alarm clock you can buy.

This clear, waterproof holder is a simple way to protect your proof of vaccination card while in your purse or pocket. (We’ve got more great vaccine card holders for you here.)

We love Mavogel’s cotton eye mask, which manages to block out all light while remaining supremely comfortable. At under $10, it’s an easy way to invest in better sleep.

Keep your kitchen clean while being nicer to the environment with these bestselling, reusable dishcloths. Reach for one whenever you’d use a paper towel, then simply toss it in the wash when you’re done.

Health is about more than weight, which is why Wyze’s scale measures 12 different body metrics (including BMI, muscle mass and body fat percentage). It’s our favorite smart scale, thanks to its consistency, sleek design and easy-to-use app that can help you track your fitness progress.

No new iPhone is complete without a new charger, and Apple’s in-house model is the one to beat. In our testing, it fully charged an iPhone 13 in just 90 minutes. Why not grab one for every room of the house?

Make 2022 the year of clog-free drains with the legitimately life-changing TubShroom, which traps hair before it can amass into a slimy, water-stopping glob.

From cracked skin to endless sniffles, dry winter air can wreak havoc on your body. Get some relief with our pick for the best bedroom humidifier, which is whisper quiet and features an optional soothing night light.

Sturdy handles, tons of pockets and an external USB port have earned this backpack more than 17,000 5-star ratings. It also features a convenient luggage strap that secures it to your carry-on, plus a small anti-theft pocket to protect your valuables. (We’ve got more great travel backpack picks for you here.)

Offering the line’s largest and sharpest display yet, Amazon’s Echo Show 15 is an excellent addition to your smart home. In addition to offering all the functionality you’ve come to expect from Amazon’s home hubs, our reviewer loved the fact that its big, bold screen can double as a kitchen TV.

This is another great option for keeping your vaccine card safe, especially for frequent travelers. The combo case comes in 15 color options and includes slots for credit cards and your driver’s license.

Place one of these colorful pucks in the corner of your shower and turn on the hot water to release a cloud of soothing, deliciously scented steam. This six-pack makes for a great Valentine’s Day gift as well!

Snuggle up on chilly nights with Roku’s bestselling streaming player, featuring Dolby Vision and Atmos support, voice control and, of course, access to top apps like Hulu, Netflix and HBO Max.

Shark makes the best cordless stick vacuum for small spaces. Our reviewer loved how portable the Wandvac is (it weighs just 2.1 pounds) as well as the fact that it comes with Shark’s fantastic detachable handheld vacuum for quick cleanups.

Braun’s thermometer is accurate, hygienic and easy to read. Because it can also be used to gauge the temperature of bath water and food, it’s particularly great for families with small children.

Tired of brooms toppling out of the closet? Stick these clever grippers to the wall to create vertical storage, and voilà! Cleaning up no longer poses a safety hazard.

Anker’s tiny, fast and affordable Nano Pro 511 is our choice for the best basic USB-C charger for your phone.

The Steelcase Series 1 earned the top spot in our office chair testing, thanks to its customizability and exceptional comfort. At hundreds less than luxury ergonomic chairs, it’s also a fantastic value.

Amazon’s top-selling laptop backpack is another excellent option for all your 2022 travels. Matein’s bag helps you stay organized with dedicated phone and pen pockets, while adjustable shoulder straps and ventilated back padding make for comfy carry.