Eight years ago, the TaxPayers’ Alliance reported that “in the last year, five times more Labour people were appointed to public bodies than Tories”.

It currently reports that almost half of avowedly political appointees last year owed their allegiance to Labour Party, compared to less than a third for the Conservatives.

Despite the selection of some Party members or supporters to fill important posts, over time, the Conservatives have punched beneath their weight when it comes to public appointments. One of the reasons seems to be that Tories simply don’t apply in the same number as Labour supporters.

To help remedy this, each week we put up links to some of the main public appointments vacancies, so that qualified Conservatives can be aware of the opportunities presented.

“Ministers are seeking to appoint the first Patient Safety Commissioner (PSC) for England. The core role of the Commissioner will be to promote the safety of patients in the context of the use of medicines and medical devices and to promote the importance of the views of patients and other members of the public in relation to the safety of medicines and medical devices. The first Patient Safety Commissioner will play a central part in establishing the role and will: Provide strong leadership, and challenge to the healthcare system through their core functions to: promote the safety of patients, and to promote the importance of the views of patients and other members of the public in relation to the safety of medicines and medical devices…”

Time: Three days per week to full-time.

“Historic Royal Palaces is a leading independent charity that wants to make deep connections with people through the six sites of national importance in its care. We are seeking a Chair to lead our Board through a period of recovery after the Covid pandemic, to achieve successes in the future as we have in the past. The Appointment of Chair of the Board is made by Her Majesty The Queen, following the recommendation of the Prime Minister and Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport. DCMS is committed to eliminating discrimination and advancing equality of opportunity in its public appointments. We particularly encourage applicants from underrepresented groups, those based outside London and the South-East and applicants who have achieved success through non-traditional educational routes.”

Bank of England – External Member of the Monetary Policy Committee



“The Bank of England is the central bank of the United Kingdom. Standing at the centre of the UK’s financial system, the Bank is committed to promoting and maintaining monetary and financial stability. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England has responsibility for formulating monetary policy. The MPC consists of nine members – the Governor, the Deputy Governors for Monetary Policy and Financial Stability, and Markets & Banking, a member appointed by the Governor (the Bank’s Chief Economist) and four external members appointed by the Chancellor. This is a high profile and influential role, requiring strong and proven economic and analytical skills. Candidates must demonstrate that they have used their economic expertise operating at a very senior level in commercial, retail, business, financial markets, a policymaking environment or academia – as a leader in their chosen profession or field of economics.”

“The Bank of England is the central bank of the United Kingdom. Standing at the centre of the UK’s financial system, the Bank is committed to promoting and maintaining monetary and financial stability. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England has responsibility for formulating monetary policy. The MPC consists of nine members – the Governor, the Deputy Governors for Monetary Policy and Financial Stability, and Markets & Banking, a member appointed by the Governor (the Bank’s Chief Economist) and four external members appointed by the Chancellor. This is a high profile and influential role, requiring strong and proven economic and analytical skills. Candidates must demonstrate that they have used their economic expertise operating at a very senior level in commercial, retail, business, financial markets, a policymaking environment or academia – as a leader in their chosen profession or field of economics.”

“We are seeking an exceptional individual to join the UKHO Board as a Non-Executive Director (NED). The successful candidate will support the UKHO in driving forward a pivotal commercial and digital transformation programme in response to significant change in the international market for high-quality hydrographic data. The NED has an important role in supporting and challenging the UKHO executive leadership team to ensure that there is a clear focus on transformation, increasing revenues, building partnerships, exploring new markets and continuous improvement. The NED will work in close partnership with the UKHO’s Chair and other NEDs, including the UKHO’s MOD sponsor.”

“Government has committed to establishing an England Species Reintroductions Task Force to provide independent advice on species reintroductions in England. This technical advisory group will bring together statutory bodies, experts and stakeholders to provide a collective evidence-based view on potential species for conservation translocation and reintroduction in England. We are now looking for a chairperson for this Group, initially holding a 3-year term. Roles and responsibilities will include: chairing meetings of the England Reintroductions Task Force, guiding the agenda, discussion and agreeing outputs of such meetings. Meetings will occur quarterly for the first year and twice yearly thereafter; engaging, negotiating and working with Task Force members, including experts, eNGOs and statutory bodies, to gain collective agreement towards evidence-based advice and outputs…”