Orthodontic procedures celebrate a longstanding and reputable namesake within the world of dentistry. Both braces and Invisalign have successfully transformed countless lives by elevating both the aesthetic and function of every smile they embrace.

Considering such a life-changing procedure is often met with an array of questions and concerns, especially when deciding which orthodontic method would serve as the best fit for you.

Ultimately, it’s best to receive a professional consultation beforehand. This will allow a dental professional to gain key insights into your unique situation and recommended the appropriate orthodontic method to reshape your smile.

Side by Side Comparisons When considering between braces and Invisalign, the focus is placed on a handful of key circumstances unique to each option. To ensure you adopt the right choice for you, it may prove helpful to consider some of these core topics and relate them directly to your oral anatomy and lifestyle!

The most common backlash braces receive are regarding their physical appearance. Typically metal or silver in colour, the steel brackets find a home on top of your teeth producing a bold appearance for all to see. There are various colour options for additional costs, with some patients opting into the clear white hue so they better camouflage into the teeth.

In stark contrast stands Invisalign. Consisting of removable and clear plastic aligners which embrace your teeth. The product is praised for its stealth, being nearly invisible to unsuspecting eyes. Treatment Time

The average lifespan of the braces process stands at around two years. This is completely dependent on the situation of the patient, meaning it could be quicker or take longer. Moreover, braces are a fixed solution; meaning they cannot be removed and are permanently fused to your teeth for the duration of the treatment.

Invisalign is often seen as a quicker alternative, on average completing its course between six to eighteen months- again depending on the patient. Best of all, Invisalign is completely removable! Offering flexibility and certain freedoms to those who adopt it. The aligners are designed to be worn between 20 to 22 hours a day.

On average, the braces cost anywhere between $1,800 to $5,000. The severity of how much shifting your teeth require is the major influencer on cost. Most dental insurance plans cover, in some part, a certain amount of the payment.

Due to its modern edge, Invisalign is on average much pricier. The usual treatment boasts a price tag of about $5,000. Again, insurance plans usually cover some extent of dental alignment procedures– so always inquire with them before making any commitments.

Braces, being fused onto your teeth, become an integral part of your oral anatomy. Meaning all oral health habits will have to take their presence into consideration. To upkeep their integrity, it’s mandatory to brush twice a day thoroughly, especially after meals, and floss daily! Ensuring the wires and brackets are spotless. Invisalign requires an elevated sense of responsibility. Since the product is completely removable, it requires its own upkeep alongside your regular oral care habits. This includes following the instructions of dental professionals, adopting the Invisalign cleaning system, and brushing or rinsing trays in lukewarm water.

Braces require checkups about once a month. Granting dental professionals the ability to track your progress accordingly, ensuring any tweaks or adjustments may be made to continue to steer your teeth into the desired formation.

Invisalign is a little less demanding in terms of required visits to your local dental office. Since new plastic aligners are crafted in advance to match alongside the shifting progress of your teeth, you will have to attend scheduled checkups every four to six weeks.

There May Be More

There are a few other factors that contribute to your optimal orthodontic method beyond the ones listed above. It’s also commonplace to find Invisalign associated with more mature patients.

Invisalign’s fate lies, in large part, within the patient’s hands. Its guaranteed success is reliant on the patient’s individual responsibility, as the process is so flexible. Pre-teens in need of teeth realignment aren’t usually capable of reliably handling these demanding circumstances, and are best suited for braces instead.

For more information, contact a dental professional or schedule a consultation to get a better understanding of what method can effectively improve your smile!