But in 2022, sexual exploration has become part of wellness. Self care is also about sex care. After all, sexual pleasure is consistently shown to produce all sorts of benefits — from better skin, sleep and mental health. It’s a multi-billion dollar industry too, with everyone from Gwyneth Paltrow to Lady Gaga flogging hi-tech sex toys, condoms and This Smells Like My Vagina scented candles.

Now that sex has been dragged out of the dark, seedy corner and into the light, consumers are able to properly examine the way they have sex and the products they use. We’re re-educating ourselves and re-adjusting our expectations. It’s not enough for a sex aid to simply look or feel good, customers want it to be good, too, with sustainabilty becoming a key sticking point.

So see-ya, Dry January, here’s my pick of the sexy newness to get excited about this year.

Recognisable from her Day-Glo pink hair and proud monobrow, Ruby Rare is a sex educator who has always been unapologetically open and honest. Now she’s launching an eight-part series called In Touch (the first episode was released January 19) exploring topics like nudity, pornography, pleasure and kink. Her work is influenced by her lived experience as a bisexual, non-monogamous, dual-heritage woman but each episode will see her working though topics with expert guests. Her listeners are bound to become sexperts in no time.

All at once, during lockdown, half the country let out a collective sigh. No, not in exhaustion at some new Covid-19 measure announced by our PM, but in pleasure when the erotically-charged Duke of Hastings licked that spoon (I still can’t stir my tea without flashbacks). After some pandemic complications, it was finally confirmed by producer Shonda Rhimes, that Bridgerton season two would return to Netflix on March 25. Now, sadly, it is true that Regé-Jean Page won’t be reprising his role as the dashing Duke, but we can all trust that the Bridgerton gods will ensure their viewers are treated to suitably steamy scenes to keep us binging all night.

It used to be embarrassing to pay for porn. It was some kind of sign you were a ‘dangerous sex addict’, but now it’s more shameful to get it for free. Nobody wants to be thinking about the negative impact of their search history while trying to get off. Enter audio porn. Dipsea (dipseastories.com) has undergone a rebrand, with a new app design, logo and tagline: “Listen, light yourself up”. Elsewhere, audio erotic brand Audiodesires (audiodesires.com) has released a reader function that allows users to read along as they listen — an app is coming later this year. Both sites are constantly adding new raunchy tales to their growing library. Let your 2022 be filled with aural pleasure.

If, like me, you remember sex education at school being similar to that scene in Mean Girls where Coach Carr shouts “Don’t have sex, because you will get pregnant and die”, then Sophia Smith Galer’s new book Losing It is the resource you wish you’d had. The journalist and TikTok star takes a myth-busting examination of sex culture looking at asexuality, incel culture, virginity and the rise of labiaplasty, among other fascinating issues. Don’t worry, you don’t have to be a pubescent teenager to find it completely enlightening.

Sexual pleasure is for everyone and, for too long, certain groups have been left out of the conversation. But now, the Bump’n Joystick (getbumpn.com) has come to fill the gap (not literally). On a mission to ensure everyone is able to “bump ‘n grind and get down regardless of ability”, the brand has created the first disability-driven sex toy specifically designed for those with hand limitations. So if you have dexterity issues or just want your hands free for other things, pre-order now to receive your toy when it launches in May.

If you have got the disposable income to invest in self-pleasure, Lelo (lelo.com) is the brand to know. The luxury sex toys combine intimacy and technology to pioneer new ways to reach extreme levels of pleasure. The Ina Wave 2 (£179), the newest product, is an evolution of the rabbit vibrator promising an orgasm that will “connect you to your inner goddess”. The new iteration has an increased range of 12, which might sound like a spinal tap amp going to 11, but the intensity will knock your socks off.

In 2022, if you’re whipping out a condom or lube, you’d better know how it’s going to impact the environment. Here We Flo (hereweflo.co), known for its organic tampons, has launched XO! condoms. They work, they feel good, but equally as importantly, they also promise “world changing sex”. The “righteous rubbers” are carbon neutral and made from sustainably-harvested rubber in solar powered factories.

If you’re looking for lube, Roam (exploreroam.com) has reimagined the embarrassing and ugly bottles we are used to seeing in supermarket aisles with two stylish skincare-inspired lubes that are recycled and recyclable. One is called ‘for the back’ and the other ‘for the front’. No explanation necessary.

An app designed to aid mind-blowing orgasms: where do we download? In 2022, we’ll continue to see the popularity of app-controlled sex toys flourish. Perhaps it was all that time spent locked behind closed doors last year, but now that now we’re allowed to roam free, it seems we’re bringing our sex toys with us (albeit secretly). The We-Vibe toys (available on lovehoney.co.uk) allows users to control their sex toys from their phones (or from someone else’s).

If you love gossip, drama and listening in on other people’s relationships, how are you not already following @Oloni (Dami Olonisakin)? The sex blogger and host of the Laid Bare podcast regularly asks her followers for prompts, like: “I want you to DM me the craziest story of what TRULY happened when you text him apologising for falling asleep,” and, boy, do the replies get messy. Somehow she brings out the pure honesty in people with unfiltered stories you wouldn’t even tell your priest. We can’t predict the probing questions Oloni will be prompting this year, but it’s bound to be juicy.