Ok, yeah yeah, it’ll never happen. I get the cynical ennui of it all. tfg (my own definition) aka traitortrump-mctraitorface, always skates. And Groundhog Day to boot. More snow and ice coming, and lindsey graham pipped a squeak and the sskkkrumpgop bus just bounced the diameter of a wanker quicker than a RINO can backpedal.

Still, the chance that some charging authority charges sskkkrump and he needs arresting is a non-zero variable needing political and multi-discipline analysis, because the possibilities of serious or catastrophic events related to a future indictment, apprehension, transportation, and incarceration of tfg are many. I believe that planning for some possible outcomes is being done now. If not, it should be initiated immediately, including feasibility analysis of options if he decides to resist arrest and publicly calls for assistance at his Florida residence, or an alternate location he flees to. Would he voluntarily surrender then ratchet his calls for protests up? Maybe, but the government would be existentially negligent letting him out awaiting trial to call for mob violence probably. Hard to imagine that. But some things must be imagined, and gamed, and readied.

I am not sure how best to apprehend tfg by charging authorities. tfg presents a situation unique to American history, of critical monumental importance, yet fraught with immense national security danger prior, during, and after, for a likely extended but unknown time. I have written what I would like, and given my opinion that a cuffed perp walk next to FBI Special Agents and Federal Marshals would fit his crimes against the country. But, that is one possibility, perhaps a less than probable one. Still, IMO, above zero percent. Other possibilities are that he surrenders for a deal, shoots it out in Florida, summons a mob, etc. etc..

And after this unknown, what next with tfg? How can he be moved, and to where, exactly? Historical precedent and common sense might indicate incarceration aboard ships of the United States Navy would be possible, and in this case, it could offer a solution to a problem of locational security in an active threat environment, which seems a safe bet it will be, somehow.

If anyone has any thoughts about this, putting them out there would be interesting. I find it all very concerning, especially after this past weekend. One thing we know: communication to Americans by the apprehending authorities will be critical in every way. I have not done any research about other nations. Our current situation is unique to our history, and could actually find it altered depending on the outcomes of how all this is initiated and carried out if, and when, tfg needs to be apprehended.