Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell countered former President Donald Trump on Tuesday saying those charged with crimes for the January 6 Capitol attack shouldn't have their sentences shortened.

'What we saw here on January the 6th was an effort to prevent the peaceful transfer of power from one administration to the other, which had never happened before in our country,' McConnell said at a press conference with GOP leaders. 'My view is I would not be in favor of shortening any of the sentences for any of the people who pleaded guilty to crimes.'

At his Texas rally on Saturday, Trump dangled pardons for January 6 defendants. 'If I run, and if I win, we will treat those people from January 6 fairly. We will treat them fairly,' he told the crowd.

'If that requires pardons, we will give them pardons,' the former president added. 'Because they are being treated so unfairly.'

His comments attracted criticism, including from a top ally: Sen. Lindsey Graham, who called them 'inappropriate.'

'I don't want to reinforce that defiling the Capitol was OK. I don't want to do anything that would make this more likely in the future,' Graham said.

'I want to deter people who did what - on January the 6th, and those who did it, I hope they go to jail and get the book thrown at them because they deserve it,' the South Carolina senator added.

McConnell and Trump had a falling out after the ex-president refused to concede the election to now President Joe Biden.

McConnell, however, voted to acquit Trump during his second impeachment, saying he didn't believe the Senate could impeach a president after he departed office.

Press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday that Trump's rally speech and his criticism of former Vice President Mike Pence for not overturning the election is a 'reminder of how unfit he is for office.'

'And it's telling that even some of his closest allies have rejected those remarks as inappropriate in the days since,' Psaki added during the briefing.

On Sunday, Trump sent out a statement specifically saying that he wanted Pence to 'overturn the election' when the vice president was presiding over the joint session of Congress on January 6, the day of the Capitol attack.

'He defended the actions of his supporters who stormed the Capitol and brutally attacked the law enforcement officers protecting it,' Psaki pointed out. 'I think it's important to shout that out and call that out.'

'He even attacked his own vice president for not, in his words, having overturned the election,' the press secretary added.

Trump also encouraged his supporters to protest if the ex-president got indicted.

'If these radical, vicious racist prosecutors do anything wrong or illegal I hope we are going to have in this country the biggest protest we have ever had,' Trump said at the Saturday rally. 'In Washington, D.C., in New York, in Atlanta and elsewhere because our country and our elections are corrupt.'

Earlier this month, New York's Attorney General Letitia James claimed that Trump's company used 'fraudulent or misleading' valuations of golf clubs, skyscrapers and other properties to secure loan and tax benfits.

At the rally, Trump also suggested that his 2016 rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton, was somehow behind the New York investigations.

'I've got Hillary Clinton's law firm trying to prosecute me,' Trump said. 'This is the most corrupt system.'

A chant of 'lock her up!' then broke out among the crowd.

Trump is also being investigated in Georgia over whether he improperly influenced the 2020 election.

On Monday, the district attorney in Fulton County, Georgia asked the FBI for a risk assessment of the courthouse in downtown Atlanta after Trump called on his supporters to protest at the rally.

The prosecutor, Fani Willis, is planning to impanel a special grand jury in May to look into the former president, The New York Times said.

The Democrat-led House of Representatives is also investigating Trump's role in the January 6 Capitol attack.

One of the two GOP members, Rep. Liz Cheney - a prominent Trump critic - warned the ex-president would 'do it all again' pointing to his weekend remarks.

'Trump uses language he knows caused the Jan 6 violence; suggests he'd pardon the Jan 6 defendants, some of whom have been charged with seditious conspiracy; threatens prosecutors; and admits he was attempting to overturn the election,' Cheney said in a Monday morning tweet. 'He'd do it all again if given the chance.'