Two of Donald Trump's most vocal critics in the Congressional GOP, Reps. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, could see themselves booted out of the House Republican Conference this week, a new report suggested on Monday.

A resolution to on a push to formally expel the two lawmakers from the House GOP Conference for trying to 'destroy President Trump' is going to be up for debate at the annual Republican National Committee meeting, according to the Washington Post.

The gathering is taking place Wednesday through Friday this week in Salt Lake City.

Former Trump adviser David Bossie is at the helm of the push to remove Cheney and Kinzinger, the only two Republicans on the Democrat-led House Select Committee investigating January 6.

Bossie is currently the Maryland RNC's Committeeman.

His co-sponsor is Wyoming state RNC Chair Frank Eathorne, another Trump ally who attended the protest outside the Capitol on January 6 last year. The Wyoming GOP voted to un-recognize Cheney in 2021 over her efforts to work with Democrats on the Capitol riot committee.

The reported resolution is the highest-profile spat yet in the growing divide between Trump allies within the GOP and those who believe he should be held accountable for the January 6 Capitol riot and pushing false 2020 election conspiracy theories.

It's extremely rare for federal elected officials to be ejected from their own party.

In the resolution text Bossie accuses Cheney and Kinzinger of trying to 'destroy President Trump' by working with the Capitol riot committee.

He suggests they focus their efforts on helping Republicans win the 2022 November midterms rather than working with Democrats on the panel. People with knowledge of the document were cited in the report.

When asked for comment, Cheney's office directed DailyMail.com to her remarks in the Post's earlier report.

'The leaders of the Republican Party have made themselves willing hostages to a man who admits he tried to "overturn" a presidential election and suggests he would pardon Jan. 6 defendants, some of whom have been charged with seditious conspiracy,' the Wyoming legislator said.

'I’m a constitutional conservative and I do not recognize those in my party who have abandoned the Constitution to embrace Donald Trump. History will be their judge. I will never stop fighting for our constitutional republic. No matter what.'

Kinzinger's office could not immediately be reached for comment.

DailyMail.com has also reached out to the January 6 committee, the Maryland GOP, the Wyoming GOP as well as the Republican National Committee.

Monday's report notes that National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel hasn't taken a position on the resolution, but in November she said Cheney was 'still a Republican' despite the lawmaker's fallout with the Wyoming GOP.

Cheney and Kinzinger are among 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump following the Capitol riot.

Since then Kinzinger has announced his retirement from the House, and Cheney faces a steep re-election battle without the support of her own state party and facing a Trump-backed primary challenger.

She was also booted from House GOP leadership, with her colleagues voting to replace her as GOP Conference Chair with pro-Trump Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York.

But they continue to work with Democrats on the committee and to speak out against the former president's actions. Cheney, the panel's vice chair, is known for not shying away from clashes with fellow Republicans who attack the committee's legitimacy.

Most recently, after Trump declared at a Texas rally that he would pardon his supporters who stormed the Capitol if re-elected, Cheney tweeted that he would 'do it all again if given the chance.'

Kinzinger took aim at a subsequent statement Trump released, attacking his Vice President Mike Pence for not overturning the 2020 election.

'This is an admission, and a massively un-American statement. It is time for every Republican leader to pick a side… Trump or the Constitution, there is no middle on defending our nation anymore,' the Illinois Republican wrote on Twitter.

Trump allies in Washington have denounced the pair as RINOs, or Republicans In Name Only.

However when the ex-president was in office, both voted with his policies more than 90 percent of the time.

Cheney also holds a positive lifetime rating with the American Conservative Union Foundation of about 78 percent. That's significantly higher than Stefanik's lifetime rating of just under 44 percent.