The relationship experts on Married At First Sight Australia took a risk this season by pairing limousine leftie Holly Greenstein with proud Texan Andrew Davis.

Childless Holly, 36, is desperate to settle down and have a baby, but her fears that her new husband could be a Donald Trump supporter almost destroyed their marriage before it had even begun.

'Being a wife and a mother really is the most important thing to me, but I never thought in a million years I would be 36 without a husband and a baby,' Holly said in her intro.

'I always thought it would just happen,' she continued.

'Sometimes I feel like I'm a failure. You just want basic things, a husband and a child, and it seems so easy for everyone.'

She later opened up about her desire to start a family during an intense one-on-one with relationship expert John Aiken.

'It's something within me that I cannot describe, that I can't switch off,' she told him.

'It's a need, like I need air, like I need water. And there is a biological clock, and mine is ticking.'

Holly confessed she was terrified about 'missing out' on having a baby.

To try to find a man, the cinema manager has been working on manifestation, which includes using a vision board, speaking positive affirmations into a mirror each day, journaling, and keeping an empty drawer at home for a future spouse.

The show's relationship experts admitted Holly 'was a little intense' and could 'come across as unusual at times'.

'I'm not everyone's cup of tea,' she admitted.

'But I'm real, I'm genuine, I wear my heart on my sleeve and I know what I want and I always go for it. It will come to me when the universe is ready for it to happen.'

Luckily for Holly, Andrew is a traditional twice-divorced single dad who works as a motivational speaker, so on paper the pair appeared to be a match.

Unfortunately, things got awkward the second Andrew arrived at the altar, when Holly's mother heard his Southern drawl and expressed concerns about him being from Texas.

Thankfully, Andrew and Holly had an instant spark - but Holly still seemed thrown off when she discovered his Southern background.

She later complained about him being American to producers, admitting she was scared he might be politically conservative.

'My goodness. American, Texas. Oh, my god,' she said, clearly flustered.

'I'm thinking guns and anti-abortion laws and Trump is just coming to my head,' she continued.

'This guy could be the father of my children, so my goodness, it's kind of scary.'

She added: 'I think political views reflect on what you value in life and what you want in your life.'

However, she warmed to his Southern charm once she discovered he had a young daughter.

Later that night, she quizzed Andrew over his politics to make sure he didn't vote for Donald Trump.

'I didn't vote for Trump,' he said. 'To be completely honest, I'm not massive on politics, but I'm not on that bandwagon.'

She later gushed to producers: 'No Trump! He seems like a somewhat normal American Texan.

'I had a little sigh of relief that he didn't have a Make America Great [Again] hat hiding in the closet.'

They bonded even more on their honeymoon, when Andrew broke down in tears while discussing his need to find a mother figure for his daughter.

After Holly comforted him, Andrew told producers: 'Now that I see that she's gonna be there if I have a down moment, she's a champion.'

Holly also said her feelings for the handsome Texan were 'pretty intense'.

They then shared a bath together, with Andrew stripping off completely nude before jumping in with the brunette beauty.

The other couple to tie the knot on Wednesday's episode were Selina Chhaur, who comes from a traditional Asian family, and Sydney personal trainer Cody Bromley.

Selina was instantly attracted to Cody when they met at the altar, but Cody didn't seem so sure.

He seemed overwhelmed at the reception by Selina's energy, as she fired off questions about his personal habits and quizzed him on having a family.

'I want to assume that we're having a baby!' she exclaimed.

'Let's just slow it down a wee bit, shall we,' he told producers. 'Ease up.'

By the time they reached their honeymoon, things started to fall apart during an honesty box challenge.

When asked to answer if he's attracted to Selina, Cody admitted he wasn't.

'I don't know why I'm struggling a bit with the sexual attraction,' he said.

'It's like my schlong isn't coordinating with my head,' he added as Selina wiped tears away.

Married At First Sight continues Thursday at 7.30pm on Channel Nine