The Trump family have accused New York Attorney General Letitia James of breaking state laws for a politically motivated 'fishing expedition', in a fiery court filing Tuesday.

The legal filing, lodged by Donald Trump's lawyers in New York, claims James was hell-bent on prosecuting the Trumps even before she got into office or saw any evidence against them, and has used her AG investigation into the family firms to raise money for her political campaigns.

The lawyers say she breached the New York constitution by colluding with the state's former District Attorney Cyrus Vance to run parallel criminal and civil cases, which they claim precludes the chance for a fair trial in either.

The Trump family also claims James broke Federal Election Commission (FEC) rules which ban campaigning on the promise of a criminal investigation.

The documents are the latest in a bitter legal battle between the leader of the Republican Party and the outspoken and ambitious Democrat AG.

In an exclusive interview with DailyMail.com Eric Trump slammed the NY AG as 'vicious' and said she should be 'disbarred and removed from office'.

'This is the opportunistic targeting of a political opponent during a campaign year,' said Trump's younger son.

'Letitia James is not working on behalf of the Attorney General's office, she is working for the DNC and using the resources of the State of New York to further her own political ambition.

'This conduct is an embarrassment to New York. Last week an 11-month-old girl was shot in the face on New York streets, crime is absolutely rampant, homelessness is through the roof, two brave law enforcement officers were just executed and 1.9% of New Yorkers have fled the state in the last 12 months. Yet Letitia's sole focus, and all the resources of her office, remains on getting Donald Trump — the leader of the Republican Party.'

In 2019 James launched a civil investigation into the then-president and his companies.

Her office claims to have found 'significant evidence indicating that the Trump Organization used fraudulent or misleading asset valuations to obtain a host of economic benefits, including loans, insurance coverage, and tax deductions.'

New Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg, who succeeded Cyrus Vance Jr. this month, is also criminally prosecuting the Trump Organization and its finance chief Allen Weisselberg for alleged fraud.

In December Trump sued her in federal court after she subpoenaed him and his children to testify, and this month filed an injunction seeking to halt her probe.

James rejected the Trumps' previous filings in a public statement saying she would 'not be deterred by frivolous lawsuits and will continue to follow the facts of this case because no one is above the law.'

This month James' office took the unusual step of releasing some detailed information on their claims of fraud against Trump and his businesses.

They accused him of claiming his Trump Tower penthouse was 20,000sq ft bigger than it is to achieve a valuation over $200million more than its true worth, in loan application documents.

He allegedly told the IRS he had seven nonexistent mansions worth $61million at his Seven Springs Estate in Westchester County, and received tax deductions worth millions of dollars as a result.

James says the Trump Organization's longtime chief financial officer Allen Weisselberg testified that he told an insurance company valuations were by independent appraisers, when in fact they were by Trump Organization staff.

In legal filings, the AG's office says Trump valued his Aberdeenshire golf club in Scotland at $435 million in 2014, based on the assumption he could build 2,500 luxury homes on it, when in fact it had approval to build fewer than 1,500 'holiday apartments,' residences and golf villas.

And they claim that one of Trump's flagship New York properties, 40 Wall Street, was drastically overvalued on his Statements of Financial Condition (SFC) – the annual record of his assets and liabilities that he gave to lenders and insurers

The building's value was recorded as $200million for a 2010 loan modification and $260million in 2012, but was valued between $524million and $621million on his SFCs during the same period, James' probe claims.

As the statute of limitations on the claims is approaching, the AG has until April this year to level civil charges against Trump and his organization.

The details were released in a court filing as part of an attempt to persuade a New York State judge to allow James to compel Trump, his son Donald Jr. and daughter Ivanka, to testify under oath.

In their new filing, Trump's lawyers argue that James is trying to circumvent their constitutional right against self-incrimination.

The New York constitution says that a defendant or target of a criminal investigation 'may not be called and examined before a Grand Jury', the legal filing points out.

But targets of a civil probe, like James' against the Trumps, can be forced to testify.

The lawyers claim that by running a tandem civil and criminal investigation into the Trump family's dealings, James is trying to force Trump and his children to unconstitutionally give evidence against themselves which will then be passed to the Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg, for use in the criminal case.

Trump's son Eric has already been deposed by James in 2020 – but exercised his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination over 500 times in response to her questions during the under-oath grilling.

In their latest legal filing the Trumps pointed to repeated statements by James that she was out to get them, and accused her of conducting a 'selective prosecution'.

'Letitia James's statements have improperly and repeatedly threatened investigation and prosecution of former President Trump and his family as a campaign promise to garner votes, money and support, and now, as Attorney General, to gain political support,' the court documents claimed.

James repeatedly referred to Trump as an 'illegitimate president', including at a campaign event in July 2018, telling the crowd: 'No one is above the law, including this illegitimate president…and so I look forward to going into the office of Attorney General every day, suing him, defending your rights, and then going home.'

The following month she tweeted: 'NY needs an experienced Attorney General to protect them.... I've been a practicing lawyer for 29 years. I don't back down. So whether you're an unscrupulous landlord or an unscrupulous President (or both like @realDonaldTrump) -- you should be scared.'

In a NowThisNews video in September 2018, James said 'I believe that the President of these United States can be indicted for criminal offenses' and promised that 'the office of Attorney General will continue to follow the money because we believe that he's engaged in a pattern and practice of money laundering, laundering the money from foreign governments here in New York State and particularly related to his real estate holdings.'

And back in July 2017, she even got on stage at a karaoke concert in Brooklyn and performed a version of Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive, singing to the crowd during the song: 'Donald Trump is no match for us, we will survive.'

The Trumps' legal filing also highlights James comments made on TV show The View last month explaining why she withdrew from the New York gubernatorial race: to focus on prosecuting the Trumps.

Host Joy Behar told James '​​I believe in putting Trump in jail.' James laughed and responded: 'Joy, you know I love you, right? I do, I do, I do. So, you know I can't admit or deny. I cannot admit and/or deny those allegations in the preface of your question.'

Eric told DailyMail.com the statements show James set out to prosecute them before she was elected and before she obtained any evidence of wrongdoing – and claimed that she has failed to produce proof of money laundering.

James references her investigation in her campaign emails, which the Trumps claim is unethical conduct for an Attorney General.

In one email to her followers, sent on January 9 this year, James wrote: 'I have fought tirelessly to defend the vulnerable and voiceless against all threats – including the powerful and wealthy. No one – not even the president of the United States – is above the law,' and asked her recipients to answer a poll question: 'Did you approve of Donald Trump as president?'

The Trumps' latest legal filing claimed her probe is 'based on personal animus to then-President Trump, not those of an elected law enforcement officer following the evidence where it may lead.'

'Starting from the time she announced her candidacy for Attorney General in May 2018 – well before she could have seen any evidence or known any facts – Ms. James made clear that she despised Donald Trump's politics and policies and made 'taking on Donald Trump' the focal point of her campaign,' the court documents said.

Trump family lawyer Alina Habba told DailyMail.com that James was 'an embarrassment'.

'Letitia James is not serving the people of the state of New York. She is focused solely on furthering her own political agenda. As evident by her distracting responses to our papers, the OAG has no defense for her egregious and unethical conduct.

'Today, we submitted to the court her statements for the world to hear. This conduct is an embarrassment to the New York State bar and our legal system. We will continue to fight vehemently to make sure that this type of viewpoint discrimination never happens to another person again.

'This is truly prosecutorial misconduct and, in her own words, 'no one is above the law.'