Former Miami Dolphins head coach Brian Flores has filed a class-action lawsuit against the NFL, the New York Giants, the Denver Broncos and the Dolphins claiming racial discrimination in the league's hiring process for coaches and executives.

Flores filed the suit in the Southern District of New York on Tuesday. In it he accuses Dolphins owner Stephen Ross of offering him $100,000 for every loss in an effort to tank for the No. 1 draft pick during the 2019 NFL season, and includes texts he alleges are from New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick demonstrating that the Giants conducted an interview with Flores while knowing that they intended to hire Brian Daboll as head coach.

The suit alleges that the Giants interviewed Flores simply to satisfy the NFL's Rooney Rule mandate requiring that teams interview minority candidates.

The NFL responded with a statement Tuesday afternoon disputing the suit as "without merit" while defending its hiring practices:

Perhaps the most damning of the accusations in the suit involve Belichick and the Giants. The suit includes a screenshot of a text exchange Flores says he had with Belichick in which the Patriots head coach allegedly mistakenly texted Flores that he was going to get the Giants job when they were in fact hiring Daboll. The exchange allegedly happened three days prior to Flores interviewing with the Giants.

The text exchange reads as follows, per the suit:

The Giants released a statement on Tuesday afternoon responding to the suit claiming that "Flores was in the conversation to be our head coach until the eleventh hour."

Flores spent 15 seasons as a scout and assistant in New England under Belichick before joining the Dolphins as head coach in 2019. The Dolphins fired Flores on Jan. 10 after three seasons. It was an unexpected move following a 9-8 Dolphins campaign that included a seven-game winning streak.

Flores was was widely presumed to be a top candidate for multiple head coaching vacancies, the Giants among them. The Giants hired Daboll on Friday. He was previously the offensive coordinator for the Buffalo Bills.

Flores released a statement on Tuesday through his lawyers separate from the lawsuit acknowledging the risk the lawsuit presents to his career.

The suit claims that "the writing had been on the wall" for his termination from the Dolphins since he started the job in 2019. The suit states that Ross "told Mr. Flores that he would pay him $100,000 for every loss" as the team sought to land the top selection in a draft that included quarterbacks Joe Burrow, Tua Tagovailoa and Justin Herbert.

The suit states that Flores "refused his owner’s directive to 'tank,'" prompting general manager Chris Grier to tell Flores "that 'Steve' was 'mad' that Mr. Flores’ success in winning games that year was 'compromising [the team’s] draft position.'"

The Dolphins went 5-11 in Flores' first season and selected Tagovailoa with the fifth pick in the draft. The Cincinnati Bengals selected Burrow — who's playing in next week's Super Bowl — No. 1 overall.

The suit also alleges that "Mr. Ross began to pressure Mr. Flores to recruit a prominent quarterback in violation of League tampering rules" following the 2019 season. It describes a scene in which Ross allegedly invited Flores to his yacht for a lunch meeting. When Flores arrived, he was informed that the "prominent quarterback" was also joining the meeting, per the suit, prompting Flores to refuse the meeting and leave "immediately."

The suit claims that from that point on "Mr. Flores was ostracized and ultimately he was fired." The "prominent quarterback" is not named in the suit. The suit claims that the Dolphins subsequently defamed Flores in media and league circles as difficult to work with after firing him.

The Miami Dolphins released a statement Tuesday afternoon that they "vehemently deny any allegations of racial discrimination and are proud of the diversity and inclusion throughout our organization."

Suit: Broncos met with Flores after 'drinking heavily the night before'

The suit alleges that his interview with the Giants wasn't the first "sham" interview he conducted in the NFL. Per the suit, Flores met with Denver Broncos brass including then-general manager John Elway and president Joe Ellis in 2019. Per the suit, Elway and Ellis showed up to the meeting an hour late, looking "completely disheveled."

"It was obvious that they had drinking heavily the night before," the suit reads.

The Broncos ultimately hired Vic Fangio while Flores landed in Miami.

The Broncos issued a statement calling the allegations "blatantly false" and vouching for the professionalism and legitimacy of the interview with Flores:

The lawsuit also cites ex-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick's exit from the NFL amid his protests of police brutality and social injustice as another example of alleged racism in hiring practices that extends to quarterbacks.

"Against the backdrop of the League’s history, this conduct remains an appalling example of the League’s continued problems with race," the lawsuit states.