While many may feel as if Antonio Conte could have been backed further, the club did at least bring new faces in during the first window under the Italian’s watch. Whether or not it is quite enough to arm him with the ammunition required to mount a serious push for Champions League qualification remains to be seen, although there have at least been signings.

Certainly, the idea of Conte working with new faces is promising but the major theme of Spurs’ January transfer window must surely be frustration.

Missing out on targets and a distinct lack of action until the final few days, it’ll be interesting to see how Conte - a man not shy of challenging those above him - reacts from here.

With all that in mind, here’s a round-up of Tottenham’s January business.

A target to have emerged late in the window, the Swedish international has joined on an 18-month loan deal from Juventus with an option to buy at the end of it.

Able to operate across the frontline, the 21-year-old does provide Conte with an alternative to Lucas Moura, Heung-min Son and Harry Kane.

Juve teammate Rodrigo Bentancur has arrived, although this time on a permanent deal.

The 24-year-old Uruguay international has penned a contract until 2026 and had been strongly linked with Aston Villa prior to Spurs’ interest. A deep-lying defensive midfielder, he will officially join up with the squad next week once the international break is finished.

Spurs had hoped to bring the Spanish international over from Wolves and saw talks with their Premier League rivals progress.

Traore is understood to have had concerns about playing at right-wing back and duly moved back to boyhood club Barcelona on a loan deal.

Another player Spurs had hoped to sign, Luis Diaz joined Liverpool in a deal worth up to £50m earlier this week.

While Tottenham had held talks with Porto, Liverpool were alerted to the interest and swooped in, having previously earmarked him as a signing for the summer.

A 19-year-old winger for non-league outfit Lewes, Spurs had agreed a six-figure fee for Ollie Tanner.

Still, the move broke down after Spurs failed to agree personal terms.

After failing to impress Conte, club-record signing Tanguy Ndombele returned to former club Lyon on the final day of the window.

According to various reports, the French side have an option to buy him in the summer for around £54m.

Another big summer signing in 2019, Giovani Lo Celso has joined Villarreal on loan for the rest of the season.

After struggling to settle after his summer move from Sevilla, Bryan Gil returned to La Liga with a loan move to Valencia.

Having fallen down the pecking order since the sacking of Mauricio Pochettino in January, Dele Alli completed a permanent move to Everton on deadline day.