For what it’s worth, I don’t believe the Met’s woeful handling of “partygate” was mandated by the Prime Minister. It’s even worse than that. The Met is perfectly capable of cocking things up all on its own.

Dame Cressida Dick is once again facing furious criticism from all quarters. The public are angry about “partygate”, black and Asian people about heavy-handed tactics including stop and search, and the capital’s women about the murder of Sarah Everard by Wayne Cousins, the manhandling of female mourners at Everard’s vigil and the disgusting behaviour of Met officers who took photos of the murdered sisters Nicole Smallman and Bibaa Henry.

As if that wasn’t all bad enough, yesterday saw the publication of a devastating report by the Independent Office for Police Conduct which revealed stomach-turning WhatsApp messages between police officers at Charing Cross station — joking about racism, homophobia, rape and domestic violence.

I felt queasy reading some of the messages which take you to the darkest of places. These are the people whom we look to for protection. And here is a terrifying glimpse into how they think.

Many a true word is spoken in jest, goes the phrase. That’s why “bantz” is so revealing. People don’t show their true selves when they are on duty. It’s in the safety of the WhatsApp group, in the relaxed, casual references to raping or beating women.

Now, of course, the Met has apologised for the officers’ behaviour saying it was “deeply sorry to Londoners and everyone they have failed with their appalling conduct”. But tired old arguments about a few “bad apples” won’t wash.

Dame Cressida is safe in her job, especially after the force’s bungling of “partygate” threw a protective ring around the PM. But she should reflect on the people who she is truly accountable to — ordinary Londoners who have completely lost faith in her force.

It’s not even about outrage on social media or protests outside Scotland Yard. The fallout from this colossal loss of trust has far more tragic consequences. It will manifest itself in the woman who is raped or attacked but would rather stay silent and weep alone than take it to the police because, quite frankly, why would you after those messages?

My only hope comes from a new generation of police recruits — particularly women of all ages and backgrounds who have chosen to join the Met at this low moment and genuinely want change. A recent joiner told me how hard they were working to claw back trust.

They said they are haunted by what happened to Everard and that no one mentions the murderer’s name. Only hers. Rightly so. Dame Cressida owes it to Sarah, Nicole, Bibaa and every woman who is disgusted by and terrified of the Met to get a grip.

Kardashians are falling about in thongs — nature is healing

A rare blessing during the pandemic was seeing less of the Kardashians falling about in thongs but sadly, nature is healing.

Kim is back fresh from her split with Kanye and busy promoting overpriced pants called SKIMS by showcasing her “flat midsection” and “dangerous curves” while holding a platter of cake and suggestively licking some frosting. Do me a favour? She’s definitely not been ambushed by cake of any description.

I’m not a fan. She’s helped promote unrealistic and unattainable body standards to a generation of anxious young women. She even promoted a diet lollipop which was meant to suppress your appetite.

I took great offence at this. Mainly because it didn’t work. I scoffed a whole box. I demand my money back, Kim. Or at least some large pants.