The glossy, high fashion magazine has named 25 actors, including Halle Berry, Peter Dinklage and Cate Blanchett, for its special piece in its March edition to mark awards season.

Veteran actor Dame Judi, 87, looked stylish in a red coat paired with a retro pair of red heart-shaped sunglasses, while posing against an autumnal backdrop.

She told the publication that her advice to her younger self would be “not to fall in love all of the time.”

Dame Judi’s latest film, Belfast, Kenneth Branagh’s story of a young working class boy growing up in the Northern Ireland capital during the late 1960s, won best screenplay at the Golden Globes.

Spiderman star Benedict Cumberbatch also made the list, telling the fashion bible that the best piece of advice he’s ever bene given is: “You can control your reaction to events, but you can’t control the events”.

Mr Cumberatch looked suave in a grey suit, while reclining on a red velvet sofa.

Recalling his Hollywood icon Humphrey Bogart, the actor, 45, said: “He was charming, dangerous, vulnerable and witty. I was intoxicated by him when I was younger.

“Harrison Ford was my go to hero. I was obsessed with that guy.”

His dark western The Power of the Dog scooped three awards at the Golden Globes, but he narrowly missed out on best actor for his role in the film to Will Smith.

The 79th Golden Globes took place at the Beverly Hilton hotel in Los Angeles last month without a red carpet or official media access.

Meanwhile, Cate Blanchett cut a striking figure in a silk gown on a pebble beach in her photoshoot.

Her Netflix film Don’t Look Up, tells the story of two astronomers who go on a media tour to warn humankind of a planet-killing comet hurtling toward Earth.

It was nominated for a multitude of awards, and set the streaming giant’s record for the most viewing hours in a single week.

It also went on to become the second most-watched film on Netflix within 28 days of release.

Her best piece of advice, which she tells her children, is to “stay out of the sun”.

Other high profile actors to make the list include Dakota Johnson, who starred in the Lost Daughter alongisde Oliva Colman, Spider Man actor Andrew Garfield, Rachel Zegler in West Side Story and Jodie Comer, whose latest film The Last Duel is set in the midst of the Hundred Years War.

The March issue of British Vogue is available on newsstands and via digital download from Tuesday, February 22.