There’s a magic in witnessing the New Year emerge from the old, because new beginnings and fond farewells are what New Year’s gatherings are about. And no more so than Scotland’s ancient Hogmanay traditions, embedded as they are in the spirit of celebration and community, and in the spectacle of fire and light.

All are key inspirations for our limited edition A Night on Earth in Scotland, a golden-hued single malt that reflects the joy of celebrating special occasions with loved ones, wherever you are on earth.

The artistry behind the spirit

The gift box’s themed artwork, inspired by Hogmanay’s fire rituals, is the handiwork of acclaimed Japanese-French illustrator Erica Dorn.

Erica grew up in Japan and studied graphic design in London. She has long been a part of Wes Anderson’s film-making team, handcrafting props for the likes of The Isle of Dogs and The French Dispatch.

Inviting her to join our lead whisky maker Sarah Burgess in creating A Night on Earth in Scotland, we knew we had brought together the perfect blend of creative talents, complementing each other’s work in the expression of the whisky itself and the way it is presented, so that even unboxing A Night on Earth in Scotland becomes a special event.

Playing with the theme of fire

“Fire plays a significant role in New Year celebrations around the world,” says Erica of her designs, “and around its warmth we gather our families, friends and loved ones to share past memories and future hopes.”

With fire at the heart of her design, and the rituals of Hogmanay wrapped around it, her playful art evokes Hogmanay’s First Footing tradition, whereby luck comes with the first visitor to step across the threshold as the chimes of midnight fade away, bringing with them shortbread, whisky and coal for the fire – and good fortune for the New Year.

For her colour palette, Erica chose red for the outside, evoking merriment, vitality, good fortune and joy, and for the interior, she picked a blue reminiscent of clear and crisp winter’s evenings in Scotland, while the bottle itself is nested in amber tones, evoking the sweet aroma of the soft butter and freshly baked shortbread that were inspirations for lead whisky maker Sarah Burgess.

“Crafting A Night on Earth in Scotland has been an extremely personal experience for me,” she says, “which took me back to growing up in our family home in Speyside, just across the river from The Macallan Estate.”

Here at The Macallan, she drew on our exceptional American and European oak sherry-seasoned casks, and American ex-bourbon barrels, combining them in the long maturation process to deliver this single malt’s rich, sweet shortbread-like character, punctuated by festive notes of dried orange and spice.

It’s these core notes and inspirations that make A Night on Earth in Scotland so singular and so special. With its butter-rich aromas of vanilla, baked apple, baking biscuits, plum and almond leading to a palate of soft velvety sweetness combined with dried oranges, fig and cinnamon and a sweet butterscotch finish, it’s a perfect pairing and perfect gift for the perfect New Year’s celebration.

A Night On Earth In Scotland is priced at £75 RRP and is available from specialist retailers, Waitrose Cellar, Amazon and The Macallan