The revolutionary new approach is potentially able to measure a woman’s risk of developing four cancers or of undetected disease spreading.

Early results suggest that the test is able to identify more than 76 per cent of women at the highest risk of breast cancer, compared with 47 per cent from measures in current use.

For ovarian cancer, it identified almost two-thirds of women at highest risk, up from the 35 per cent achieved by current tests.

Further results are due soon on the ability of the Women’s cancer risk Identification test, or “WID-test”, to predict womb and cervical cancer.

Lead researcher Professor Martin Widschwendter, of University College London, said the test was able to measure the risk by analysing cells collected during a routine smear test.

He said: “The WID-test will look for the footprints on a woman’s DNA as she goes through life, recording the track she is taking and whether she is heading towards cancer.

“We look forward to a future in which cancer screening is driven by better molecular tests that give women the option to take preventive measures at an early stage and journey away from cancer.”

Athena Lamnisos, chief executive of The Eve Appeal charity, which helped to fund the research, said: “Creating a new screening tool for the four most prevalent cancers that affect women – particularly the ones which are currently most difficult to detect at an early stage - from a single test could be revolutionary.”

Cervical smear tests are offered to all women from the age of 25 on the NHS, and have more than halved the death rate from cervical cancer.

Breast screening, using mammography, is offered over the age of 50 but there are problems with low performance in younger women, over-diagnosis and decreasing attendance rates.

Ovarian cancer is the most deadly of the gynaecological cancers, with 75 per cent of cases being diagnosed at a late stage.

The researchers made front-page news in the Evening Standard five years ago when they secured European Union funding for the research. On Tuesday the first of their results were published in the journal Nature Communications.

The study assessed samples from more than 3,000 women at 15 centres across Europe. More than 250,000 European women are diagnosed with the four cancers each year, and almost 45,000 die from them.

People found to be at high risk could be offered regular surveillance, risk-reducing surgery or drug therapies.

The researchers hope to expand the test into larger trials to confirm their ability to predict cancer.

Liz O’Riordan, a breast cancer surgeon who has had breast cancer, says: “This research is incredibly exciting. At the moment there is no screening test for breast cancer in women under the age of 50.

“If this test can help pick up women with a high risk of developing breast, ovarian, cervical and uterine cancer at younger age, it could be a game-changer.”

Maria Caulfield, the Minister for Primary Care, said: “It’s great to see how this new research could help alert women who are at higher risk to help prevent breast, ovarian, womb and cervical cancer before it starts.”