From A-list turns to inspired-by-real-life dramas, formally experimental adventures to buzzy new writing, there’s something to suit all tastes. Here’s our guide to what’s new on stage this month...

Kit Harington returns to the stage to play the title role in Henry V, getting a promotion from King of the North to the King of England. It’s a spicy time to be reviving this particular Shakespeare: the Donmar says Max Webster’s production will explore the question “do we ever get the leaders we deserve?”

Andy Warhol and Jean-Michel Basquiat’s friendship has been a source of fascination in the art world and beyond for many years. This new play attempts to get inside it, with Paul Bettany as Warhol and Jeremy Pope as Basquiat.

Caryl Churchill’s two-hander about fathers, sons and the ethics of cloning gets done quite a lot, but it never gets old. The latest anticipated revival, directed by Lyndsey Turner, will offer audiences the chance to see two of our finest actors taking on the roles: Lennie James and Paapa Essiedu. James has long been a mentor to Essiedu, making the pairing all the more intriguing.

Get your warmest shawl on and your trudgiest boots and get ready to frolic about the moors: Emma Rice’s acclaimed production of Wuthering Heights is coming to the National Theatre. It received a shiny set of five star reviews when it opened in Bristol last year, and Ash Hunter and Lucy McCormick’s snarling Heathcliff and Cathy are the perfect pair to bring the story to a Gen Z audience.

Elsewhere at the National this month, Alecky Blythe has spent the last five years talking to teenagers about how they feel about the world for her new verbatim show. It sounds like they had a lot to say, as the production is apparently running just shy of four derriere-numbing hours.

“James McAvoy gives a stunningly powerful performance in this piece of pure theatre, the most breathtakingly exciting show in London right now,” said our critic Nick Curtis when Jamie Lloyd’s production first opened in December 2019. And now it’s back, for a limited time only - don’t miss the chance to see McAvoy giving one of the most charismatic turns you’ll see all year.

Fresh from Oscar glory for the adaptation of his 2015 play The Father, Florian Zeller brings us another high class drama full of complex emotions. Toby Stephens and Gina McKee will star in the world premiere of this play, about a man trying not to mess everything up while feeling tormented by the competing demands of his life.

Irish playwright Sarah Hanly performs her own debut play at the Royal Court, after an acclaimed run at the Abbey Theatre in Dublin. About a woman who moves from Ireland to London, apparently guarding a big secret, it has just been shortlisted for the Susan Smith Blackburn Prize, a sure-fire sign it’s worth seeing.

Yes, it’s another Hamlet - but, if you can believe it, this will be the very first time it’s ever been performed in the Globe’s Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. Expect Sean Holmes’s candlelit production to be an intense and intimate experience.

An elderly couple set out some chairs and try to impart a very important message to their audience - but will they be able to get it across? Director Omar Elerian’s new translation of Eugene Ionesco’s absurdist classic 1952 will probably still feel as absurdly relevant now. Plus, it’s the chance to see theatre legend Kathryn Hunter perform alongside Complicite co-founder Marcello Magni (who is also her IRL husband).

Grief, generational divides and mental health all come under the spotlight in this new play from Sian Carter, about a British-Carribbean family trying to come to terms with the loss of a loved one. Bridgerton star Ruby Barker is among the cast.

In Tyrell Williams’s play, a local football pitch in South London is where three friends grow up together, kicking a ball around and talking about their hopes and dreams. But the community around the pitch is under threat, altered by the fast-moving tide of gentrification. Directed by the Bush’s Associate Artistic Director Daniel Bailey, the stellar cast features Sex Education star Kedar Williams-Stirling, Emeka Sesay who appears in Amazon’s upcoming series The Power, and Francis Lovehall, who recently made his screen debut in Steve McQueen’s Small Axe.