Here are some news stories that might be of interest. Most articles will be more or less summarized in the headline. You can skim the headlines and summaries, and click the links if they are of interest. Keep in mind, many of these reports are products of the Fake News, so although they will be what people are hearing and talking about, there is no guarantee any one of them is necessarily correct, and we have had cases of outright lies make it onto these pages, especially about President Trump.

Twitter Brief is here.

No Q. You can see Q’s posts aggregated live, and new ones which may have gone live after our print deadline at http://www.qanon.pub

The Trump administration is declassifying intelligence, recently briefed to President Trump, that indicates China offered to pay non-state actors in Afghanistan to attack American soldiers.

Israel says the Chinavirus was developed during gain-of-function research and was released by accident.

Lin Wood gave an interview. I listened to the hour and 20 minutes, and these were all the important parts, from a lawyer who specializes in defamation:

A sealed document in a federal court in Maryland, sealed under National Security, documents how Nancy Pelosi, Rod Rosenstein, John Podesta, and John Brennan have tapes of John Roberts talking with Podesta about who would best replace Antonin Scalia, and they were recorded before Scalia died, and apparently had foreknowledge of his death. Roberts flew on Epstein’s plane because Epstein helped him acquire his children from Wales. Barack Obama is worth well over billion dollars, much inherited from his step-father who owned it in Halliburton stock. Many people in this country will go to jail for treason, and the number that will be just associated with trying to steal this election from our President will be astounding. He predicts a violent period of civil unrest as the Cabal tries to engage in violence as part of their Color Revolution plan, just like we have seen overseas, after Trump wins the Presidency. He believes the Governor of Georgia has been taking kickbacks on Georgia purchases of Dominion voting machines and Chinese PPE orders. And the death of Harrison Deal in a car wreck, which produced an explosion that was heard by witnesses a mile away, was a message to him. Pat Cipillone, the disloyal White House lawyer trying to thwart President Trump at every turn, drives a new luxury vehicle to the White House every two days, including a Rolls Royce. Rosenstein, Sally Yates, and Christopher Wray all worked in the same law firm, and are corrupt. CIA is the most corrupt organization in the country, and President Trump is about to defang them by pulling all direct-action operational capabilities from the Agency, reducing it to an organization of paper pushers. Oddly enough President Kennedy was about to do that when he was killed, and the memo, named “Memorandum 45,” sat on his desk unsigned. Lin implies President Trump set it in motion by signing that very memo. Bill Gates is going down as well. George Bush 41 and 43, Bill and Hillary, and Obama all ran crime families, and they ran them out of the Oval Office. He said he believes the notes given at Bush 41’s funeral said, “I’m sorry, but they know it all.” Under the 2018 EO on voting integrity, President Trump will have the power to seize all the assets of the Fake News mainstream media once things start happening, because they have profited from trying to aid China in voter fraud. He also points out there were reports of gunfire before the bombing, and that it is inconsistent with a lone bomber, and might indicate good guys killed the bomber before he positioned the bomb appropriately, and that is why the bomber failed to destroy the “evidence” he was trying to destroy. Lin says he believes if the election is shown to be fraudulent, all down-ballot elections may have to be re-held. President Trump will prove to be the greatest President in the history of the United States.

NPR does a survey and is shocked that only 46% think Q anon is false, with 14% believing it and 37% saying they don’t know. And that is the bullshit, selectively designed poll.

One anon opens a thread on /pol saying he posted an election fraud thread before everybody knew what was going on, strange overseas flags’s began dropping interesting tidbits of inside intel in perfect English, the thread got nuked, and he was promptly banned across 4Chan. Then he found out that the ban was IP based and spread back through his Gmail, his twitter, his facebook, a bunch of private sector corporate sites, and although his Chan ban just lifted, he is still locked out of everything else. And he never posted to 4Chan while logged into any of the other services. The best part was other anons chimed in, and said they had the same experience. One even had his cellphone service knocked out for a few days, making me wonder if it was a central hierarchy over it all, or if they give the local team assigned to each anon’s surveillance some degree of autonomy, and ability to request bans from all the services for that target. It is not news there is a massive network that runs it all, but it is another potential datapoint. And a good reason to run your own site on your own hosting, so you cannot be as easily un-personed.

Vox Day points out the most important lesson of all – that everything you see, the news, the economic numbers, the election results, the polls, the whole narrative that is presented to you, is fake, and simply constructed to control you.

GOP allies meet with President Trump and plan to contest electors.

Rep.-elect Marjorie Taylor Greene says Republicans will object to Electoral College votes from six states.

Georgia Senate fraud hearing hears that GOP ballots in Georgia were printed differently than Democrat ballots, so the GOP ballots would be rejected by the machines.

At the hearing, a witness actually pulled out a tablet and hacked into a Dominion voting machine that was being used in the Senate runoff, over the voting machines internet connection, as he was testifying.

GA Senate Judiciary subcommittee voted to allow mail in ballots to be forensically analyzed. Link is to video of the hearing. Also, a witness said, 93% of the military absentees went for Biden.

Author Larry Schweikart, does a twitter thread with what a high placed Congressional source has told him will be the procedures when the electors are counted. Larry was a published author, but he has also seemed quite solid in the past. His source’s case is Pence will have very little effect on the counting due to established procedures, where he is more of a host than a participant, and he cannot refuse to count any votes. Also rejection of Elector Slates is very unlikely, unless it happens through court actions between now and then. It may mean the Dominion machine show will be more likely. Or it will simply go the way Q said, which was “Think logically – the military was the only way.” All I know is I have seen behind the curtain, at the cancer that has been building in our entire political system, conservative and liberal. All of this has nothing to do with politics, or left or right, or ideology anymore. I know what lurks behind door number two, where Biden takes office. It is flat out horrific – getting droned through your ceiling with Directed Energy Weapons for espousing bad think about China horrific. And from what I have seen, President Trump has stood up to it, hurt it, and enraged it. And because of that, I am still 100% confident there is zero way he can ever let the nation go through door number two. And that is even before considering it would place a Chinese asset in the Presidency, our elections would be gone, once and for all, and the country would begin its final descent. How what will happen happens is the only question. I have to say, the curiosity is almost as bad as the impatience.

Secret Service making changes to presidential detail amid concerns current members are aligned with Trump. Biden needs Agents who will be OK with him selling out to China in front of them.

Walmart says it will invest $425 million to expand presence in Wuhan over the next five years.

China owns outright or has large interests in a surprising number of well-known “American” brands.

A proposed wind farm project in West Texas has become a potential national security issue due to its Chinese owner who has ties to the communist regime in Beijing and the People’s Liberation Army.

China is guarding ancient bat caves against journalists and scientists seeking to discover the origins of the coronavirus.

Now a Swiss guy died right after receiving a COVID vaccination. If you have a loved one who has to get the vaccine, do it at a hospital, and wait three hours in the parking lot listening to the radio, just to be safe.

1 in 600 has died of COVID in North Dakota, New York, and Massachussets, while over 1 in 500 are dead in New Jersey. And yet, if the death rate is .06%, then even if everyone were to catch it, only one in about 1700 would die. It is impressive they have programmed the population to such a degree, they can still pull the wool over their eyes, even though they can’t even do basic mathematics.

Spain will keep a registry of people who refuse the coronavirus vaccine.

Prosecutors have charged a 17-year-old Illinois teen accused of shooting three people during a protest in southeastern Wisconsin this summer with violating curfew that night.

The Army is planning a major overhaul of its hair and grooming regulations, so girls can wear prettier hairstyles.

Congressman-elect Luke Letlow, the Congresman who was said to have died from COVID, suffered a heart attack following an operation related to the disease.

Minnesota state lawmakers call for national COVID death audit after ‘shocking’ data shows people with gunshot wounds were counted.

President Donald Trump’s campaign adviser said the team is aiming to present evidence during a potential congressional debate on Jan. 6.

Representative-elect says Pelosi and McConnell may strike a ‘deal’ to change the rules to block members from objecting to Biden.

It may not be necessary for both Houses of Congress need to reject a state’s Electoral College vote for an objection made during the joint session of Congress on January 6, 2021 to prevail.

Patrick Byrne says China studied us and saw that corruption was our weakest point.

Again, Biden refers to Kamala as the President elect.

Pence’s final visit to Israel before leaving office is canceled.

A D.C. hotel that has been frequented by the far-right group the Proud Boys announced Monday that it will be closed during the planned pro-President Trump demonstrations next week.

A former Texas state Senate candidate claims she was “gagged, bound [and] tortured” in a hotel, by three people who called her about meeting to discuss “something very important regarding her safety.”

Antifa group continues occupation of Seattle-area hotel, grows in numbers, takes over more rooms.

Gang of black youth goes on the attack with bikes and kicks, smashing the vehicle of a man driving his elderly mother. It is entirely possible the kids are Cabal kid-intel agents, and the guy and his mother were Cabal vehicular surveillance, and this whole thing, including the videography, was a choreographed show to heighten tensions, and motivate more people to move to Florida and Texas.

From the comments, you’ve probably seen it already but I want to store it here as Archival Material of Cabal – Vehicular Surveillance Example.

Scientists have found that dropping lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), magic mushrooms, ecstasy and other psychedelics can potentially alleviate the trauma caused by racial discrimination.

Cuban migrants protest at Mexico border, seeking entry to U.S.

Canada’s immigration minister is trying to accept U.S.-based illegal migrants who are going to be sent back to their home countries.

England will need to build over 100K houses per year to keep up with mass migration.

Rep Stefanik calls Cuomo an ‘absolute disgrace’ for prioritizing drug addicts for the coronavirus vaccine.

DC passes bill to vaccinate children without parental knowledge or consent.

Almost half of Swedish Chinavirus ICU patients are migrants.

Melatonin, a dietary supplement often used by insomnia sufferers, was associated with an almost 30 percent reduced likelihood of contracting the Chinavirus.

Tulsi Gabbard’s Bill to ban biological men from women’s sports gains bipartisan support in Congress.

450 miles of border wall to be finished by the end of the year.

Spread r/K Theory, because time heals all, especially curiosity.