GREENWICH — Relocating Greenwich Public Schools’ administrators and central office is back on the table, rekindling a discussion that has been off and on for decades.

First Selectman Fred Camillo has requested $50,000 in his proposed 2022-23 municipal budget to fund a space needs assessment that will look at options for moving the school district staff out of the Havemeyer Building on Greenwich Avenue.

Appearing before the Board of Estimate and Taxation’s Budget Committee on Tuesday, Camillo said freeing up the building for another use is part of plans his administration has to boost the downtown area and better connect it to the waterfront. It would also return the building to the tax rolls, since school buildings are tax exempt.

“This is a very expensive piece of property and right in the middle of our commerce district downtown,” Camillo said. “With all that’s going on downtown and all the improvement, this sticks out. The building has fallen into disrepair and it’s not fully utilized. Do we really need to be printing out materials and running offices there?”

Camillo’s administration already has promoted plans that have seen increased outdoor dining and new bump outs. Future projects are being discussed for parking and revitalizing Roger Sherman Baldwin Park.

But moving the Board of Education out is not a simple matter. More than 100 employees work in the building which also houses a warehouse and the town’s print shop.

Any decision on leaving would have to come from the Board of Education. Camillo said he and Selectwoman Lauren Rabin met in December 2019 with schools Superintendent Toni Jones who at the time said relocating was “fine” as long as the town was able to find them some space to work in.

Tuesday, Director of Communications Jonathan Supranowitz said, “What Fred Camillo said was accurate, but ultimately, it is not Dr. Jones’ decision to make. It has to involve a greater discussion between the Board of Education and the town.”

Camillo said he had talked to some Board of Education members — he did not disclose which — who said they were “totally supportive of this.”

Board of Education Chair Kathleen Stowe did not return a request for comment.

Camillo said he had recently toured the site with a renovation and restoration professional who estimated that fixing the building would cost about $50 million. The town would have to pay for the repairs if it continued to hold onto its use of Havemeyer, he said.

In laying out his plan, Camillo said revitalizing Havemeyer, like the new Eastern Greenwich Civic Center and his plans for Roger Sherman Baldwin Park, would be a chance to enhance a valuable town property through a public/private partnership that would provide more public access and more revenue to the town, he said.

“I have been approached by two totally separate people ... about coming there and helping the town with it,” Camillo said. “They are interested in redoing the building on their dime but leaving it open and providing much more private access than we have now. You can’t go in there now unless you’re going in there on Board of Education business. We think it really would be a boon to the Avenue.

“I don’t know what we’re waiting for,” Camillo said. “We want to get the ball rolling on this.”

The Budget Committee will vote on its recommendations March 7 and the full BET is expected to vote on the budget March 31.

Budget Committee member Leslie Moriarty, a former Board of Education chair, called the project “potentially a good idea for the town” but expressed concern about where to move the central office staff.

Paying for rental space would be added to the Board of Education’s budget and lead to a tighter school budget and having to “decide between office spaces and kids,” Moriarty said.

Without giving details, Camillo said an option for a “good, permanent home” would open up in the next three to four years and the town could start to move education staff in the next year or two.

He linked his plans for the Havemeyer Building to his overall efforts to expand options in the downtown.

As part of future plans, Camillo is seeking money to help design improvements to Roger Sherman Baldwin Park and fund the Reimagine Greenwich project being overseen by Rabin. Camillo is also looking at parking in the downtown, particularly at the Island Beach lot across from Roger Sherman Baldwin Park.

“I don’t want to see a stand-alone parking garage anywhere in Greenwich, but these would be built into the grade, like you see at Town Hall,” Camillo said. “That’s the idea here. You want to provide more parking closer to downtown in a way that doesn’t stand out.”

Camillo has been working throughout his term to get employees in the downtown area to purchase yearly parking permits in nearby municipal lots. Moving employees out of downtown parking has opened up nearly 152 parking spaces along Greenwich Avenue for patrons, he said.

Camillo said he expects that effort to continue and could open up more spots at Town Hall by having town employees work from home a few days a week.

“There is a vision for this,” Camillo said.