SHE’S the bubbly, beautiful dance sensation who has captivated viewers on Strictly and Dancing On Ice – but today Oti Mabuse reveals how trolls have constantly fat-shamed and racially abused her.

The ballroom pro says she has faced a backlash since joining the BBC1 show in 2015 and has only now chosen to lay bare the abuse.

Oti, 31, says her online attackers are a sad minority who do not reflect what most of the UK thinks of her.

She said: “I work on a show that ten million people love. If ten or 100 people aren’t nice to me, that is not representative. It’s taken years for me to get that into my head.

“To get tweeted or receive a message in my inbox being racially abusive, or fat-shaming me, is horrible.

“But it’s written by a person who can’t even face themselves in the mirror.”

Writing in the Radio Times, Oti revealed how her disproportionate view of the trolls’ negativity was fuelled by the prejudice she faced growing up in Pretoria, South Africa.

She said nothing a black person ever did was deemed good enough, and people still say that if she appears on a show it is box-ticking.

‘You know where I’m from – get over it’

Oti — whose name means “She has arrived” — added: “When you do something good, it’s not good enough because you’re black. That just shows where people who make those comments are in their own lives.

“Being black makes me special. The hard stuff that I’ve been through, with the racism and discrimination, is proof that people still have a lot to learn.

“The more hate I receive, the more of a reason it is to carry on. I have to show young girls that anything is possible.”

Oti has previously played down any negative comments she has received, saying:

“I don’t really get it too much about my image, I get it because I’m loud.

“I’m like, ‘You know where I’m from, get over it, turn your volume down’.

“I also look completely different from the other dancers — I’m a lot curvier, I stick out.

“So for me, I’ve had to use it as a plus.”

Oti, who has been married to fellow dancer Marius Iepure for eight years, is certainly providing plenty of inspiration for her fans.

Her work ethic is staggering. She has previously confessed to getting up at two or three in the morning to reply to emails and plan choreography, then returning to bed before getting up at 8am to start the day properly.

During her time on Strictly, she has become one of the most popular pros and won two prized Glitterballs in succession, first with actor Kelvin Fletcher in 2019, then comedian Bill Bailey in 2020.

Bill recalls how she would continually drive him forward in rehearsals in a way that other celebrities and their pro partners did not.

He said: “We worked and worked and worked and trained and trained — sometimes 12 hours a day. We put the hours in when everyone else was going home.

“I would say to Oti, ‘Well, where are they going, are we finished?’

“And she would be like, ‘No, we are going to be a few more hours’.”

Now there are rumours that Oti is so busy that she may quit Strictly and take her TV career to an even higher level.

Oti also looks set to reprise her role on the panel of The Masked Dancer, which will return to ITV in the coming months with a fresh line-up of celebs disguised in crazy outfits.

Last month she revealed an announcement about her future on the BBC1 show was imminent and dropped the biggest hint yet that changes were afoot.

She said: “For me, as a person in entertainment, I really want to learn and I want to grow and I want a long career, especially in this country. I moved all the way from Africa, so I have to make something of myself.

“I’m really trying to learn and do as much as I can, for as long as I can, while I can.”

The gossip has intensified since she replaced John Barrowman as a judge on hit ITV show Dancing On Ice.

She has just landed her first solo presenting role, fronting musical ITV dating show Romeo & Duet, which is set to air later this year, with contestants trying to woo one another by singing to them.

But Oti’s inspiration to become an entertainer did not come from a distant galaxy of stage and screen stars. It was her own big sister.

Motsi Mabuse, 40, became a judge on Strictly three years ago after a glittering career as a professional Latin and ballroom dancer that began when she left South Africa in the Nineties.

Oti said: “It was unheard of. For a long time she was the only black girl who did it. Motsi was someone I looked up to.

“I didn’t have a lot of examples of women who looked like me, doing what I wanted to do.”

Growing up, she always deferred to her older sister too, explaining: “She is the older one, and in African culture you listen to the eldest.”

Oti has now branched out with her own radio show, Dancing Legends, in which she interviews some of the dance world’s biggest names as well as paying homage to silver-screen legends such as Fred Astaire and the pioneering entertainer Josephine Baker.

The Radio 4 series also opened Oti’s eyes to dancing’s global heritage — and her approach was influenced by one of her former Strictly partners.

She said: “The show is partly inspired by something I learnt from Bill Bailey: Do your research, go back in time and find the root of the purpose of what you’re doing.

“Many of the dances that we do on Strictly come from the 1910s, 1920s and 1930s, and they’ve developed and changed so much since then.”

She highlights how Strictly favourite the Charleston was brought over by slaves from Africa.

In Louisiana, it turned into the Lindy Hop before becoming West Coast Swing, then jive, boogie woogie and rock ’n’ roll.

And throughout its history, dance has pushed social boundaries — a tradition Strictly continued last year by featuring Rose Ayling-Ellis, its first deaf competitor, and coupling John Whaite with Johannes Radebe.

Oti said: “Same-sex couples are not new in the dancing world. The Argentine tango was originally performed by two men.

“The women only got involved because they were trying to see if the men had money in their pockets!”
• Oti Mabuse’s Dancing Legends is on BBC Sounds and Wednesdays at 11.30am on Radio 4. Dancing On Ice continues this Sunday on ITV at 6pm.