1st Timothy 2:9-11, “In like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broided hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array; But (which becometh women professing godliness) with good works. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.” I fully agree with Pastor Steven Anderson that today's Bible colleges are destroying our churches! Bob Jones University's female students all whore dresses in 1927, back when the college first opened its doors. ...

Pensacola Christian College shamefully supports this 

 wickedness by bidding Godspeed to Bob Jones University!!!

Pensacola Christian College and Bob Jones 

 University are sinfully following the heathen world!



ABOVE: I have lost my church family, social life for several years, fake friends 

 and happiness—for merely telling THE TRUTH as a true friend does!

These two deadly bastards below of the Christian faith, Pastor Jeff Redlin considers to be his friends. These two men are as corrupt as the day is long theologically, preaching a counterfeit gospel that requires you to cease from living a lifestyle of sin, or else God will not save you. SHAME on Jeff Redlin and the PCC camp for bidding Godspeed to these devils in the pulpit today!!! These infidels are in bed doctrinally with Evangelist Ray Comfort...

If you don't have a King James Bible, you don't have an inspired Holy Bible!

Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft (1st Samuel 15:23). Steve Pettit and Marty Herron are rebelling against the Gospel of free grace. Instead they are perverting grace, requiring people to stop sinning to get saved. And sadly, Jeff Redlin wickedly pats them all on the back and criticizes me for rightly exposing these devils in the pulpit today! SHAME on all of these wicked people!!! SHAME on Pensacola Christian College for not standing (Jude 1:3).

BELOW: Another Bob Jones bitch! (one of their 'Bruins' members)

ABOVE: I am sick and tired of professed Christians who don't give a 

 damn about anything anymore. Bob Jones University is deadly!

Folks, we are in trouble today in the churches! Sadly, most churches keep making the gross mistake of hiring graduates from corrupt Bible colleges. I have not met even one Pastor yet, that denies the inspiration of the King James Bible, who didn't attend some corrupt Bible college. Pastor Jack Hyles himself admits that Bible college messed him up too! I love Brother Hyles for being so honest and transparent. Beware of Bible colleges!!! Most of them are dangerous places where your faith will be shaken and set off course. I was utterly disgusted and deeply hurt in my soul, when Pastor Jeff Redlin falsely accused me in July of 2021 of “finding weaknesses in preachers” after he viewed my website ministry. I realized then that I need to preach against Campus Church and Pensacola Christian College (PCC) from now on, for bidding Godspeed to the despicable Harvest Baptist Church on Guam and the rest of the Satanic Bob Jones University cult today!!! SHAME on Bob Jones University and their hateful graduates!!! SHAME on Jeff Redlin and PCC for bidding Godspeed to such a doctrinally corrupt and worldly institution as BJU today. The female students at BJU dress like whores!

This is ACCEPTABLE clothing at Bob Jones University!!!



Pastor Bob Gray Sr. On The Need For Biblical Modesty...

Listen, anytime you can see the crack of dawn in a woman's buttocks, that is NOT modest clothing, not even in the ballpark! Why does Pastor Jeff Redlin at Campus Church and the PCC camp go along with this filth, allowing PCC's students to intermingle in competitive intercollegiate sports? It just sends a strong message to the young people that the manner in which we dress doesn't really matter! It sends the wrong message that getting along with each other takes higher priority that biblical standards of doctrine and morality. No Sir, that is a WRONG attitude!!! It is far better to be divided over doctrine and righteousness, than to be united by doctrinal error and worldliness. Dr. Steve Pettit preaches hardcore Calvinism (aka, the Devil's lie of Lordship Salvation). No one seems to care, but I do. RIGHT DOCTRINE MATTERS!!! It is wickedness for PCC to bid Godspeed to Harvest Baptist Church on Guam, when Harvest broadcasts Steve Pettit's preaching from chapel throughout Micronesia, teaching people a counterfeit gospel. Why does Jeff Redlin support this utter wickedness, but then he berates and puts my ministry down, falsely accusing me of finding weaknesses in the Bob Jones cult. Pastor Redlin desperately needs to get right with God!!! SHAME on Pastor Jeff Redlin at Campus Church. Jeff ought to go back to Colorado where he fled from! I sincerely tried to become friends with Redlin, but he instead chose to attack my website ministry, which makes him God's enemy, since I am telling THE TRUTH!!! No pastor who goes against THE TRUTH is a friend of God. Proverbs 12:17, “He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.” I am sheweth forth righteousness by exposing the demonic Calvinist false gospel of Steve Pettit, while Jeff Redlin sinfully protects and hobnobs with the damned BJU camp! I am faithfully REBUKING THEM SHARPLY in the rotten Bob Jones cult, so that they might become sound in the faith. Titus 1:13-14, “This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.” Yet Pastor Redlin horribly attacks and unjustly criticizes me, for being faithful to the Lord to have the guts to do what he lacks the character, walk with God and spinal cord to do—TO STAND!!! Ephesians 6:13, “Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand .” Standing for right doctrine and righteousness in today's apostate churches and Bible colleges will get you censored and kicked out!!!

Bob Jones University are following fables, not the truth of a free grace Gospel. 



It's just a matter of time until ALL the Bible colleges are using the Devil's Bible revisions!!! Corrupt Bibles lead to corrupt doctrine. Instead of exposing BJU as PCC should, they are sleeping in bed with them, defiling themselves in the Devil's adulterous bed. Well I'm going to biblical and faithfully REBUKE ALL OF THEM SHARPLY, that they might become sound in the faith (Titus 1:10-14). Proverbs 20:6, “Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?” I am not proclaiming my own goodness like all these aforementioned foolish and ungodly men do, I am faithfully preaching THE TRUTH. To God alone be the glory. Jesus is precious!!!

“Faith is the only righteous thing that I can do!”

 —Pastor Jack Hyles, a quote from the MP3 sermon titled:

1st Corinthians 16:24, “My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.”