LANSING, MI – The Michigan State Police have suspended their Voluntary Benefits Program which was geared towards supporting trooper’s families after they have died.

The program had been in effect with the agency since the 1930s.

The Voluntary Benefits Program began in 1936 as a way to provide financial means to a grieving family when they lost a loved one.

Those who participated would donate either $2 for a retired trooper or $5 for an active one. The total amount of money raised would be provided to the family.

Ken Knowlton, the chair for the Michigan State Police Troopers Retiree’s Association, explained it:

“We put an envelope on a wall, you put your money in, it was collected by the post commander, sent to Lansing, and sent to the family. We had a far simpler, better way to do it back in the day. It doesn’t get any simpler than that.”

While the program was innovative when it was created, with the inception of life insurance programs, participation in the program began to subside.

Families went from receiving around $17,000 down to roughly $5,000 as the new generation of troopers were not involved. Knowlton said:

“It was very disappointing to find out that those membership numbers were dropping off, but it was more disappointing to find out why.”

When Knowlton began to investigate why the numbers were declining, he learned that the Michigan State Police had suspended the program in 2018…apparently without telling anyone.

That meant that anyone hired after 2018 was not offered the opportunity to participate while the current members were still paying. He said:

“The program itself wasn’t even being offered to the new people coming on board. So, if we don’t have new people coming in, and we have people leaving on the tail end, we’re losing on both sides causing the membership numbers to drop at that point.”

After the news broke about the program’s suspension, Target 8 started receiving calls and emails of people expressing their disgust. One of those people, retired Sergeant Richard Rothermel, wrote:

“To have [the program] after all these years of faithful service to our deceased active and retired members, canceled on the whim of an individual…is a huge slap in the face.”

Another member of the program, Jack Messer, emailed Target 8 with his thoughts:

“While many of us have other insurance, my understanding was the VBP would provide immediate assistance to an affected family upon the loss of their department member. The thought was to help meet immediate needs until other financial avenues kicked in…It is more disconcerting that the program would end without notice.”

Shannon Banner, a spokeswoman for the Michigan State Police, communicated with Target 8 about the program ending. She noted that although the failure of notifying the members that the program had ended was not done properly, she alleges that the agency did nothing illegal:

“We agree that communication to participants about the status of the program could have been better. [However] The department’s actions, while not a model of customer service, were not improper.”

Banner believes that participation in the program became less appealing to newer members of the agency because of the different life insurance policies that are available. She wrote:

“Ms. Amanda Baker, director of the MSP Budget and Financial Services Division, made the decision to stop enrolling new members into the VBP in September 2018.

By the time the decision was made, the program was already in significant decline as it was not nearly as attractive to new participants in modern times.”

Banner told Target 8 that members of the program have paid $532,263 over the course of the last two years. They have also paid families a total of $513,702 when the former or current trooper had died.

Banner alleges that the agency lacks the authority of operating the program and has been seeking other avenues to keep it afloat. However, if they are unable to come up with a solution, whatever money remains will be dispersed to the current members.

LOUISVILLE, KY – Louisville, Kentucky, is paying $75,000 to a police officer who says he was suspended for four months after offering up an off-duty prayer outside an abortion clinic. The federal lawsuit was filed October 4, 2021, by Thomas More Society attorneys on behalf of Officer Matthew Schrenger. The complaint stated that the City of Louisville and the Louisville Metro Police Department violated the officer’s constitutional and civil rights. Specifically, Schrenger claimed LMPD, Chief Erika Shields and Mayor Greg Fischer violated his First and 14th Amendment rights to free speech, free expression, and equal protection, as well as the federal Civil Rights Act and the Kentucky Civil Rights Act. In a press release issued Thursday, Thomas More Society Senior Counsel Matt Heffron announced the settlement, pointing out that the speed of the settlement shows the City knew its actions were wrong: “The City’s quick offer of $75,000 shows the City knows it committed a significant and inexcusable violation of a loyal officer’s Constitutional rights.” Schrenger and his father stopped outside an abortion clinic to pray on February 20, before the officer’s shift began. He was not on duty at the time, and he violated no specific departmental policy. Atty. Heffron pointed out that Schrenger wore a coat over his uniform and was not identifiable as a police officer. Photographs of the LMPD cruiser and allegedly showing Schrenger were shared on social media by clinic escorts at the EMW Women’s Surgical Center. Later that day at work, the officer discovered he was locked out of his work computer, relieved of his police vehicle, and removed from the patrol schedule. “Under these circumstances, where Schrenger’s conduct admittedly was not clearly prohibited, there should have been no suspension and no investigation. Officer Schrenger is a 13-year LMPD veteran with multiple commendations and without any significant previous complaints against him. He has four young children to support. “He is the sort of officer LMPD easily could have talked to, if LMPD found his off-duty prayer activities to be inappropriate.” Schrenger was suspended and he was stripped of his police powers, pending an investigation of his off-duty prayer. LMPD Chief Erika Shields wrote a letter dated June 15, 2021, clearing the officer of any wrongdoing. Despite the decision, his police powers remained suspended for more than four more months. He rejoined the force on June 15. Atty. Heffron said the treatment of Schrenger was unacceptable, especially considering other officers were permitted to march in uniform for other political reasons authorized by the department: “The treatment of Officer Schreger was particularly galling considering other Louisville police officers previously had marched, while on-duty and in uniform, in political protests that apparently were approved by the police department. “The unfair discipline revealed undeniably content-based discrimination against Officer Schrenger’s personal pro-life views and violated his First Amendment rights. He did not engage in any political protest on duty – he prayed quietly. Yet Officer Schrenger was punished for this peaceful, private behavior. He was treated very differently than other officers who had undeniably engaged in true political protest and activism while participating in LGBT and Black Lives Matter demonstrations.” Open-records requests revealed that these other officers suffered no suspension and, in fact, no discipline whatsoever, according to the Thomas More Society press release. Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!