EDINBURG, TX – U.S. Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley arrested three migrants with prior convictions for sexual crimes and eight gang members, according to a release issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) on Friday.

CBP reported that Rio Grande Valley Border Patrol (RGV) agents apprehended a group of 18 migrants in the brush attempting to circumvent the checkpoint near Sarita, Texas.

One of the migrants was found to be a Salvadoran national with a prior arrest for aggravated sexual assault of a child less than 13-year-old in 2017.

The arrest was made by Lindenwold Police Department (LPD) in New Jersey. The Salvadoran national was convicted of the crime and sentenced to five years confinement.

Shocking as the convict’s capture re-entering the country is, it was not an isolated incident. On Wednesday morning, McAllen Border Patrol Station agents conducted record checks on a Salvadoran national, who was apprehended with a group of 10 migrants in Hidalgo, Texas.

The records check determined this Salvadoran was a convicted sex offender, convicted in 2018 of lewd acts with a child under 14 years old in Los Angeles. He was sentenced to three years in prison.

Then, on Wednesday afternoon, Brownsville Border Patrol (BRP) agents arrested a male national from Uruguay illegally entering the United States.

Through records checks, BRP agents identified the subject as a sex offender with a prior arrest in 2007 for Loitering for Sex Under 18-years-old, by the Gwinnett County Police Department in Georgia.

He was subsequently sentenced to 12 months’ probation.

Sex offenders are only one of a myriad of criminals being apprehended re-entering the United States across the porous southern border. CBP Press Officer Thomas Gresback wrote:

“Also, this week, RGV agents arrested eight foreign nationals that have been identified as members of trans-national criminal organizations.

“The migrants are nationals from Romania, El Salvador, and Honduras. One of the Romanian nationals has an active full extradition warrant out of Fort Collins, Colorado for Larceny.”

These migrants are some of the latest arrests of migrants with criminal convictions arrested by CBP entering the country this year. This builds on the 10, 763 arrests of migrant with criminal convictions in 2021, 2438 in 2020, and 4,269 on 2019.

Of the arrests in 2021, 488 of those were sex offenders, up from 156 in 2020 and 57 in 2019, according to records examined by Fox News.

Border crossings have surged at the southern border since President Joe Biden took office in January 2021. Lax immigration enforcement policies and public calls for leniency for border crossers have fueled the border rush.

The Biden administration is also ferrying illegal immigrants to the interior United States on private airlines late night, clandestine flights that have riled Republican governors like Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who threatened to block state funds from companies who assist with the transport of such migrants inside his country.

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

LAREDO, TX – Customs and Border Protection have announced yet more arrests of convicted sex offenders attempting to enter the United States via the southern border.

On January 7th, federal agents at the Rio Grande City Border Patrol Station came into contact with Edgar Antonio Barajas-Granados in Roma, Texas.

While they were speaking with him, they learned that Barajas-Granados had previously been deported and was a convicted sex offender.

The release said, in part:

“Barajas-Granados was arrested in Corpus Christi, Texas for continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14.

Later that year, the 20-year-old was convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child and sentenced to 300 community service hours and 10 years’ probation.

The Mexican national has a lengthy criminal record and has been previously removed from the United States.”

Federal agents nabbed another sexual offender on January 8th when they made contact with an unidentified illegal alien who was with nine others after they attempted to sneak into the country through Mission, Texas.

Federal agents checked the suspect through law enforcement databases which showed that he was a convicted sex offender who was first arrested in 2016 for sexual conduct with a child between 13 and 15 years old.

The suspect was sentenced to 36 months in jail and then deported.

On January 9th, federal agents working the commercial bus traffic coming into the United States from Mexico made contact with Erick Omar Lopez Cruz, a Mexican citizen, and the United States Lawful Permanent resident, for a secondary inspection.

When Cruz got to the secondary inspection point, a biometric verification showed that he had an active felony warrant for aggravated sexual assault of a child out of Waco, Texas.

Port Director Albert Flores, of the Laredo Port of Entry, said:

“Our frontline officers help keep communities safe by apprehending travelers with outstanding warrants for a variety of crimes, including those of a sexual nature that impact children.”

Federal agents reported yet another sex offender who was attempting to sneak into the country.

Agents did not identify the illegal alien but reported that he was with a group of eight others when he was caught. Agents reported this illegal alien had been arrested for forcible sexual abuse in 1997 by the Utah County Sheriff’s Office.

To put this information into perspective, Customs and Border Protection can only report on the people that they have captured sneaking into the United States from Mexico.

They obviously cannot report on the thousands of illegal aliens that have successfully entered the country without detection.

Members of the Democrat President Joe Biden’s Administration would like you to believe that there are no issues at the southern border, and it is secure.

However, Republican leaders along with some Democrats have been sounding the alarm since President Biden took office and are now accusing the administration of covering up what is going on.

The Free Beacon reported that ICE has not released its annual report which would summarize the agency’s enforcement, security threats, and deportation operations.

It’s something that the agency has done annually since 2011. The last report was submitted on December 23, 2020, when Republican President Donald Trump was still in office.

Republican Senator Josh Hawley claims that the lack of an annual report may well be because the Biden administration knows that they are failing miserably on the border and do not want the American public to know.

“During record-breaking levels of illegal immigration, DHS and ICE have taken steps to dismantle interior enforcement operations that keep our communities safe from criminal aliens. I’ve been calling for transparency into these radical policy changes for months.

If ICE is intentionally hiding their annual report from the public, then it’s safe to assume it doesn’t show any improvement; it shows failure.”

Republican Representative in Texas, Michael McCaul, agrees with Hawley and claims that the Biden Administration is not taking any potential threats at the southern border seriously. He said:

“[Not publishing the annual report shows] a lack of seriousness for the crisis at they created at our southern border. ICE’s interior enforcement is critical in protecting our communities from bad actors who slip through initial detection.

With the crisis at the southern border, ICE’s presence is needed now more than ever to enforce our immigration laws.”

‘Enough already’: Sig Sauer announces major backing of national ‘re-fund the police’ campaign

Editor note: For those looking for a quick link to get in the fight and support the cause, click here.

NEWINGTON, NH – Law Enforcement Today is pleased to share that Sig Sauer, highly respected and immensely popular leader in the firearms industry, has joined us as a corporate sponsor in our campaign to “Re-Fund the Police.”

As a Law Enforcement Today reader, you know that we have put forth a campaign to back the blue and support re-funding efforts, while calling attention to both the adverse effects of defunding the police, and the positive effects that our dedicated protectors in law enforcement create every single day.

In this campaign, we put out a call for individual and corporate sponsors to join us in this mission.

Sig Sauer, with its honorable and lengthy history of supporting law enforcement, answered that call with a generous donation, standing with us and with our brothers and sisters in blue.

From its humble beginnings as a German gun company in 1751 and a Swiss wagon factory in 1853 who merged in 1875 to its current status as a firearms industry leader, Sig Sauer has remained synonymous with expert, state-of-the art craftsmanship and reliability.

Sig Sauer has also cultivated a close working relationship with law enforcement over the decades of its existence, marrying its expertise with the needs of those who serve.

“It is the largest member of a worldwide business group of firearms manufacturers that includes J.P. Sauer & Sohn and Blaser, Gmbh. in Germany.

“This global network of companies gives SIG SAUER a world-class firearms knowledge base, unparalleled design expertise, and extensive manufacturing capacity, enabling the company to respond quickly and effectively to changing market conditions and the needs of its military, law enforcement, and commercial markets worldwide.”

In addition to state-of-the art equipment such as firearms, ammunition, optics, suppressors, and air guns, Sig also provides top-of-the line training for law enforcement officers and others.

Sig Sauer Academy, located in Epping, NH, offers firearms and tactics training to everyone from first-time gun owners to the most elite levels of law enforcement and military. This facility “features state-of-the-art indoor and outdoor ranges, tactical training areas, urban environments, a shoot house, a maritime training area, and a force-on-force village.”

We recently sat down with Tom Taylor, Chief Marketing Officer and Executive VP of Commercial Sales, to learn more about Sig Sauer’s decision to back our campaign to “Re-fund the Police.”

“The minute we heard the concept, it resonated with us here at Sig Sauer, because it’s so disgusting to us, the whole “defund the police” mentality….

“The police were already shorthanded, there’s never enough training, there’s never enough equipment, there’s never enough people, there’s never enough resources.

“And then you throw at them this ‘defund the police’ mess, to put it politely.”

“It just disgusts us, when we see specific incidents of police agencies like Austin, who have gone so all-in to this concept of taking resources away from an operation that is already underfunded.

“Who is going to help save lives when they’re needed? It’s harder and harder to get police officers where they’re needed, on time, because of a lack of resources….

“You hear the 911 calls where people are calling in the middle of a riot in Atlanta, and they say, we’re really sorry but there are no police officers to send to your aid right now.

Taylor explained further that raising money is itself important, but the plans to raise awareness and share the truth with the public are equally significant.

“I think it’s important to educate the public that there’s a problem….

“No matter how much money we raise in this effort, it’s also very important that we let the world know that the police need resources and they need money.”

Taylor added that a further advantage to educating the public would be to improve the reputation of law enforcement as a career.

“We also need to try to re-engage young people to be police officers, because that used to be such a noble and admirable thing, and now it’s becoming so difficult to be a police officer, and to have young people aspire to be in law enforcement.

“We want to communicate to the world that it’s ok to be a cop.”

Taylor expanded further upon Sig Sauer’s ties with law enforcement, saying:

“It’s in our DNA…. We work closely [at Sig Sauer Academy] with military and law enforcement….

“It’s a big part of who our Academy personnel are; they are all current or former military and cops… and so they are such thought leaders for our company for both training and equipment and importantly, mindset.

“When we are developing a new product, we go talk to them.”

“Our CEO [Ron Cohen] served in the Israeli military for five years, and our dedication to supporting law enforcement and military runs so deep in this company…. The moment I mentioned the ‘refunding the police’ concept to our CEO, he immediately wanted to support this cause.”

“We absolutely want to let the world know how much we support the thousands of police agencies and hundreds of thousands of officers who carry our products, and those who don’t….

“It doesn’t matter what product they use, they need our support.

“We are doing this because we have so much respect for our police officers, and it is very disappointing that a part of our society allowed something called ‘defund the police’ to become part of our culture, truly sad.”

In addition to its generous financial support, Sig Sauer will also be throwing its own marketing efforts behind the “Re-Fund the Police” campaign, amplifying the message on their social networks.

To learn more about Sig Sauer products and training, visit Sig Sauer at their website, SigSauer.com.

You can also follow Sig Sauer on their Facebook page, their Twitter feed, their Instagram account, and their LinkedIn account.

Law Enforcement Today is immensely grateful for Sig Sauer’s strong stand to support all those who protect and serve, and we look forward to working together with Sig to “Re-Fund Our Police” and expand public understanding of the the daily good deeds of our protectors in blue, as well as the adverse effects of defunding the police.

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

“Re-Fund the Police”: Law Enforcement Today launches nationwide campaign for Americans to back the blue

Editor note: In 2020, we saw a nationwide push to “defund the police”. While we all stood here shaking our heads wondering if these people were serious… they cut billions of dollars in funding for police officers. And as a result, crime has skyrocketed – all while the same politicians who said “you don’t need guns, the government will protect you” continued their attacks on both our police officers and our Second Amendment rights.

And that’s exactly why we’re launching this national crowdfunding campaign as part of our efforts to help “re-fund the police”.

For those looking for a quick link to get in the fight and support the cause, click here.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA – You back the Blue. You support the police. You quietly buy an officer a cup of coffee at your local coffeehouse. You bring homemade cookies to your local police station. You make it a point to thank an officer when you see one out in public.

You watch the news, aghast to see crowds of anti-police protesters and rioters committing acts of violence and massive property damage. You pray daily for the Blue family.

And yet, you may feel quite alone.

Politicians and the mainstream news media would have you think that police support is at an all-time low.

Some of you may have found it necessary to take down your Thin Blue Line flags from your house, or to scrape off the Thin Blue Line sticker from your vehicles, due to the potential for violent retaliation by those who hate the police.

Yes, it is the loudest voices that are the ugliest. They revile and attack those who back the Blue. They call, “Defund the Police!” at every turn, fueled by the lie that police officers are racists who are out to kill.

But you are actually in excellent company in your support of the blue family.

According to a Gallup poll, 85% of Americans support law enforcement. That means supporters of the Thin Blue Line are 285 million strong.

That would be 285 million who, like you, refuse join in the calls to defund the police.

And that means you are in the company of those who have logic and reason on their side.

After all, we at Law Enforcement Today bring you stories daily of exploding crime in police-defunded areas such as Austin, Portland, New York City, or Los Angeles.

Homicide rates since defunding are up 58% in Atlanta, up 533% in Portland, and up 37% in Philadelphia.

Shootings in post-defunded New York City are up 64%, and they are up 51% in Los Angeles and up 18% in Chicago.

In addition, you have also followed our disturbing and often tragic stories of attacks on police officers in the era of police defunding.

Felonious attacks on police are on the rise, as documented by the FBI’s Law Enforcement Officers Killed and Assaulted (LEOKA) Data Collection.

“The 50 law enforcement officers feloniously killed in the first 8 months of 2021 represent a 51.5 percent increase compared to the 33 officers killed during the same period in 2020.”

Also thanks to defunding, police departments across the country now lack training, resources, and equipment. Ironically, calls for additional training in cultural awareness, de-escalation, and use of force often have to go unheeded due to the lack of financial resources.

Another irony is that the push to do away with less-lethal options such as Tasers and tear gas will simply lead to more fatal police shootings.

These alarming stories and statistics indicate beyond a doubt that defunding the police is absolutely the wrong move for this great country. You know this, yet you and 285 million other voices are all too often silenced by social pressures as well as physical threats of violence.

You are even told, “Silence is violence,” when it comes to refusing to stand against law enforcement.

Your voice matters, and you need to be heard.

“Americans have stood by in disbelief as this ‘defund the police’ movement has spread across America and ravaged our communities.

“We’ve watched our cities burn, our officers be attacked and violence skyrocket.

“It’s time to come out of the twilight zone. It’s time to fight back.”

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

Law Enforcement Today, the nation’s largest police-owned media outlet, has developed a way to make your voice heard and oppose those who would seek to remove funding from those who protect and serve.

It’s called the “Re-Fund the Police” campaign.

“We wanted to make the “Re-fund the Police” campaign something that everyone- whether you can spare $1 or $1 million – can be a part of.

“People will donate to politicians all day long in hopes that person will get elected and possibly make a difference.

“We are asking for people to come forward and support those who make a difference and save lives every single day.”

Through your generous donations, Law Enforcement today will direct a media and advertising blitz to rally other Americans who, like you, are done with attacks on law enforcement, both physical and financial.

Here’s what the funds go towards:
• We’ve assembled a “strike team” of researchers and reporters who will delve deeply into the devastating impact that defunding the police has on communities and families. They’re going after not just the “leaders” in Congress who are pushing to defund the police… but they’re exposing everyone from the local politicians and city councils who are behind it. They’re also tracing the money of exactly who is funding this “defund the police” movement.
• We will focus on publicizing all the negative effects of defunding police while expressing support for our brothers and sisters in blue. The advertising blitz will be a show of support for police officers all across America.

In addition, we will be sending a team of reporters into our communities to share positive stories of law enforcement, stories which are consistently ignored by the mainstream media.

As a thank-you for your generosity in standing strong for the blue family, we are offering access codes for Law Enforcement Today’s Wounded Officer documentary and Border Crisis documentary. In addition, we offer additional perks such as stickers and Thin Blue Line face masks or yard signs.

Donors are also able to honor or memorialize a member of the blue family.

For those who cannot afford to contribute, we invite you to be a part of a nationwide chain of prayer warriors.

You can join our prayer chain along with other supporters who are willing to pray for our brothers and sisters in blue.

Also, when you sign up for our newsletter, we will keep you informed on how we are continuing to back the Blue, and bring you the stories the mainstream media will not touch.

Now to small businesses who are sick and tired of watching our cities burn as the “defund the police” movement spreads.

For business donors, we are pleased to offer a unique opportunity to make a difference in police departments across the country.

“We wanted to make sure small businesses could get in the fight, so we are rolling out the ‘adopt a police department’ program.”

Your business donation will be used to cover stories in the community of your choice, and expose those who are attempting to defund the police. Those stories, if you choose, will also include a thank you to your business and a link back to your business website.

In addition, your generous business donation will go toward advertising campaigns that highlight the negative effects of demonizing and defunding the police.

This will give you the opportunity to show to millions of Americans that, unlike “woke” anti-police organizations, you support and appreciate law enforcement.

“Corporate America rallied around the Black Lives Matter movement, donating hundreds of millions of dollars to a campaign that brought widespread looting and destruction in our cities.

“This is an opportunity for businesses to show America that law and order and keeping people safe still means something to them.”

Please join your voice with Law Enforcement Today in this campaign to support all those who protect and serve us.

We invite you to visit the Re-Fund the Police website for further information.

If you have questions, or you want to start your own fundraising team, feel free to email us at [email protected]

It’s time to get in the fight.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.