WASHINGTON, DC- The giggle administration strikes again, this time White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki—and the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) isn’t laughing.

On Monday, the National FOP slammed Psaki, accusing her of mocking rising concerns of the American people over rising crime rates. Psaki’s chuckling lack of concern over what has become a borderline crisis came the same week two New York City police officers were being laid to rest.

National Review reports that FOP President Patrick Yoes took Psaki to task in a statement:

“I think it’s wrong—very wrong—for Ms. Psaki to suggest that violent crime in our country is of no concern or to just laugh it off.”

“She may feel safe in the White House, one of the most protected buildings in the United States, but not everyone feels safe in their workplace. The world we find ourselves in is dangerous and increasingly more so. Tens of thousands of people have been the victims of crime this month alone, and some of them never made it back home,” Yoes said.

Psaki was appearing on the Pod Save America podcast and Psaki seemed to be shocked that Americans are concerned with the spiking crime rate, caused in part by Democrats’ soft-on-crime, anti-law enforcement policies.

The condescending Psaki was talking about how so-called “right wing anchors” have been focusing on the rise in crime, to which Psaki—doing her best imitation of Kamala Harris—giggled,

“And then on Fox is Jeanine Pirro talking about ‘soft-on-crime consequences.’ I mean, what does that even mean? Right, so there’s an alternate universe on some coverage. What’s scary about it is a lot of people watch that.”

Psaki referenced coverage on networks such as CNN and MSNBC, which have ignored the crime spike while still obsessing on former President Trump and January 6, 24/7. So where exactly is the “alternate universe” again?

Psaki was asked about her comments during the White House press briefing Monday by Fox News reporter Jacqui Hendrich. Psaki, claimed her words were “taken out of context” and that she was merely rebutting accusations that the Biden administration is “soft-on-crime.”

However listen to what she said and decide for herself. She claimed Biden is meeting with city leaders, such as the new mayor of New York Eric Adams to work on the issue.

Psaki then once again referenced the American Rescue Plan, which she claims contains funding to “support local cops programs, something that every single Republican voted against.”

None other than the Washington Post had previously given Psaki “three Pinocchio’s” for her contention that the $1.2 trillion boondoggle contained funding for police. It has funding for cities in the form of grants, but cities can spend that money in any manner they choose. There isn’t money directed specifically toward law enforcement. The Post called Psaki’s assertion “mostly false.”

In conducting their fact-check of Psaki’s statement, the Post wrote that prior to the vote on the plan, Republican lawmakers had received no assurances from Democrats that the $350 billion directed toward “state and local aid” would in fact be directed toward police departments.

“…lawmakers had no guarantee that police would get a slice of the pie,” the fact-checker wrote.

According to Fox News, Psaki claimed Monday that Biden had increased funding for the COPS program, which provides funds to hire more police officers.

Psaki might want to check crime statistics before she makes absurd claims such as she did on the podcasts. Last year, at least 16 cities—all run by Democrats—saw record murder rates. In addition, a Council on Criminal Justice study last month found that in 22 major U.S. cities, murders rose 5%, gun assaults increased 8%, aggravated assaults increased 4%, and domestic violence increased 4% in 2021.

She might also want to speak with everyday Americans, who have called crime one of the biggest issues facing the country.

According to a Fox Business poll conducted in January, 77% of registered voters said they are “extremely” or “very” concerned about higher crime rates, ranking second behind inflation on what Americans are concerned about.

In addition to slamming Psaki’s comments, Yoes also directed his ire to “agenda-driven prosecutors who have gone rogue.”

“Many of them are refusing to bring charges against so-called ‘low-level’ or ‘nonviolent’ offenders,” Yoes wrote. “Under their leadership, which has been abhorrent in many cases, many violent offenders don’t stay in jail—they’re back on the streets and free to commit more crimes.”

For example one such rogue prosecutor, San Francisco’s Chesa Boudin ran on a platform of not prosecuting “quality of life crimes” and other low-level offenses. People who voted for him were apparently not listening to his message, and now they’re having “buyer’s remorse,” with a recall effort currently underway as crime has exploded in the City by the Bay, including a 16.7% increase in homicides and a 22.7% increase in larceny, police data shows.

Meanwhile just down the coast in Los Angeles, another radical DA, George Gascon is also subject to a recall election. Last year, LA saw some 400 homicides, making it the city’s deadliest year since 2007.

Now in New York, another DA who was just elected in Manhattan issued a memo directing prosecutors to seek alternatives to incarcerating criminals except for “very serious cases.” That DA, Alvin Bragg, walked back his plans after two NYPD officers were executed during a domestic violence call and after facing sharp criticism from city residents.

It should be noted that Boudin, Gascon and Bragg were all elected in large part due to support from socialist pro-criminal George Soros.

In closing his letter, Yoes referenced the words of NYPD Officer Jason Rivera’s widow at his funeral last week, where she said:

“The system continues to fail us. We are not safe anymore, not even members of the service.”

“These are stark words, but they are nonetheless true,” Yoes said. “Pretending violent crimes are part of some other reality will not help victims. Ms. Psaki owes them an apology.”

In case you missed it, here is a piece we wrote about the impact violent crime is having on the American people.

Vicariously or directly, the overwhelming majority of Americans are significantly impacted by violence and overall crime.

University of California: “Our main conclusion is that almost everybody is touched by this…”

“We had people who responded that they passed sidewalk memorials 25 times or more a week, and I thought, at what point does living in your neighborhood resemble living in a cemetery? What does that do to your sense of a future for your community and yourself?”

Per the FBI and Gallup, violence is exploding in America. Fear of crime is at an all-time high. Firearm and security sales are skyrocketing. People are moving from cities. For high crime communities, they are devastated by fear and the loss of jobs and places to buy groceries.

But, like COVID fatigue, people have become immune to crime and violence. It no longer has the impact it once did. For many, if you don’t live in or near distressed communities, you no longer care about the suffering of fellow citizens.

I understand the reluctance to embrace the fact that people are dramatically impacted by violence. But there is a ton of research regarding vicarious victimization and what causes people to flee or disinvest themselves from high crime areas or cities.

Fear of crime is a substantial concern but fear doesn’t necessarily translate into action beyond self-protection. Policy changes fade because people have simply become complacent with criminality that seems to be out of their control.

But the data below offers new perspectives as to the impact of violence. Per research from the University of California, “Our main conclusion is that almost everybody is touched by this.”