CHICAGO, IL – Chicago police officers responding to a call about a theft in progress allegedly witnessed a ten-time convicted felon stealing catalytic converters.

Regardless of being caught red-handed and having a significant criminal history, prosecutors refuse to charge him with a felony.

On January 12th around 2 am, a 911 caller reported to the Chicago Police Department that they had witnessed someone stealing a catalytic converter off of a Toyota Prius in the 2100 block of West Roscoe in Roscoe Village.

When police arrived on the scene, they allegedly saw the suspect, identified as 35-year-old Dexter Williams, as he was trying to steal another catalytic converter.

Police moved and Williams took off on foot, leading officers on a brief foot pursuit until he ran down an alley and tried hiding next to a garage. Officers were able to find him and take him into custody.

As the officers were searching the area where Williams was allegedly seen, they located a green power saw and a car jack. The car jack was used to prop up the second Toyota Prius that Williams was allegedly seen underneath.

When police checked his history, they learned that he had a told of ten felony convictions and was currently on parole for one of them. That felony conviction was for possession of a firearm by a convicted felon with a previous gun conviction.

The other felony convictions included crimes such as resisting arrest causing injury, aggravated battery, aggravated battery of a government employee, gun, and drug cases. A significant enough criminal history that police figured it was fitting to charge Williams with another felony, the state disagreed.

The Cook County State Attorney’s Office instead directed the officers to charge Williams with a misdemeanor theft charge and to release him with a court date. That means that Williams is free to go about his business and commit more crimes while his case plays through the courts.

In December, Chicago Police arrested another man, Darrian Russell, when a vehicle he was driving was found to have 26 stolen catalytic converters inside. Police reported that of those 26 catalytic converters that were found, 21 of them belonged on a Toyota Prius.

In that case, Russell, who is a convicted felon and has been in prison six different times, was taken into custody and charged only with one count of theft of lost or mislaid property and driving on a suspended or revoked license.

Russell was released from the station with a court date while having another one for a similar charge the following week.

Russell appeared in front of a judge for his previous arrest earlier in December where he was charged with reckless conduct, criminal damage to property, theft, and attempted theft.

Instead of being sent back to prison for all of his violations, instead, they dropped all cases against him other than one count of theft in which he pled guilty.

Russell walked out of the courtroom with no other sanctions even though he violated his parole conditions by being arrested not once, but twice.

Catalytic converters are often targeted because thieves can net anywhere between $100 to $200 for each one they steal. The reason why they are valuable is because of the rare metals that are contained in each one.

According to Hagerty, converters on a Toyota Prius are more attractive to thieves because they are typically cleaner. They said:

“Because the hybrid model’s combustion engine runs only intermittently, its catalytic converter has a lighter workload…As a result, the precious metals used to neutralize carbon monoxide and other harmful gasses are less depleted.”

CWB Chicago reports the suspect in the case, Darrian Russell, a convicted felon, was stopped by the Chicago Police Department for running a stop sign on December 30th around 3 am. When Russell pulled the car over, he and the other two occupants fled the area. Police found Russell hiding in a backyard and took him into custody. After arresting the convicted felon, they looked inside the vehicle he was allegedly driving and located twenty-six different sawed-off catalytic converters. Chicago Police report that twenty-one of those catalytic convertors belonged to Toyota Prius cars and were stolen. Even though several catalytic convertors were found, police only charged Russell with one count of theft of lost or mislaid property as well as driving on a suspended or revoked license. Russell was released from the station with his promise to appear in court on the misdemeanor charges, despite already having another court appearance scheduled on January 6th. That court date was scheduled for other theft charges he committed earlier in December. On December 3rd, Chicago Police received calls alleging that people were in the Edgewater neighborhood stealing catalytic converters off of vehicles. When officers moved in, they allegedly observed Russell and another person near a vehicle that was double-parked with the trunk open. As officers got closer, they observed two men standing near a Toyota Prius that was raised on a jack. When Russell and the other unknown male saw the officers, they allegedly ran on foot. According to reports, Russell was located hiding in the back yard of a residence. Police reported they found a reciprocating saw blade in the pocket of the hoodie he was wearing. As police were investigating, a witness allegedly made contact with them and identified Russell as one of the people stealing a catalytic converter off of a Toyota Prius. The witness allegedly saw Russell put the stolen item into the trunk of the car police found idling. Russell was arrested and charged with reckless conduct, criminal damage to property, theft, and attempted theft. All of the charges Russell faced in this case were misdemeanors. Russell spent two days in jail for this incident and appeared in court on January 6th, after his second arrest, and pled guilty to one count of theft. The court dropped the other charges he faced and released him with time served and no other sanctions. Russell is on active parole for driving on a revoked or suspended license with four or more previous convictions. He is also a convicted felon who has been sentenced to prison six times. Russell’s felony convictions date back to 2005 when he was convicted twice for drug violations. He then stayed out of prison until 2010 when he was convicted of aggravated DUI on a suspended or revoked license. In 2011, he had two convictions, one for resisting police causing injury and another for being a felon in possession of a firearm with a prior conviction. In 2018, he was convicted of drug violations again. Catalytic converters are a hot commodity in the criminal world because they can get anywhere from $100 to $200 each time they are sold on the black market. The catalytic converters are popular because of the rare metals that they contain. According to Hagerty, converters on a Toyota Prius are more attractive to thieves because they are typically cleaner. They said: “Because the hybrid model’s combustion engine runs only intermittently, its catalytic converter has a lighter workload…As a result, the precious metals used to neutralize carbon monoxide and other harmful gasses are less depleted.” Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!