HOUSTON, TX – The Houston Police Department, which is investigating the murder of the fallen deputy, have arrested four other people in connection to his death.

The additional people arrested were charged in aiding the suspect in some way while he was running.

In total, Houston Police have arrested five people, including the alleged shooter, 51-year-old Oscar Rosales, in connection with their involvement in the shooting death of Harris County Precinct 5 Corporal Charles Galloway.

Rosales was located in Ciudad Acuna, Mexico by Mexican authorities and taken into custody.

Mexican authorities then extradited him back to the United States where detectives from Houston Police took custody of him. Rosales was remanded to the Harris County Jail.

Authorities also claim that Rosales had help while on the run after he alleged killed Corporal Galloway.

The first two who were arrested for helping Rosales was his brother-in- law, Henri Mauricio Pereira Marquez, and his common law wife, Reina Azucena Pereira Marquez, for allegedly trying to clean trace evidence like DNA or fingerprints from the car used in the shooting.

Two others were also arrested, charged with lying during the investigation and hindering prosecution. Detectives claim Jose Santos Gutierrez Cruz and Jose Romel Hernandez Cruz lied to them about having any recent contact with Rosales.

Detectives also claim that the two pawned jewelry so that they could provide Rosales with cash so he could escape to Mexico. All four accomplices have been held in the Harris County Jail.

According to Harris County District Attorney Kim Ogg, Rosales is a career violent criminal who was in this country illegally. Additionally, his wife and her brother also illegally entered the country at some point before the shooting.

Ogg said that Rosales was wanted for a parole violation from 1996 when the shooting occurred. El Salvador, the country where he is from, also wants him for a murder that occurred somewhere in the 1990s.

Ogg said that Rosales is known to change his name several times to evade capture. In fact, he has changed his name so many times that prosecutors are unable to determine if Rosales is even his real name.

When Rosales faced a judge, Ogg argued that he should remain in custody due to his violent history and attempt at fleeing the country. His defense attorney argued that he should be assigned a $100,000 bond, something that the Judge in the case was against.

“In listening to the arguments of both attorneys regards to bond, I’m inclined to set a no-bond in this case.”

Rosales stands accused of murdering Corporal Galloway during a traffic stop on January 23rd just after midnight.

Police allege that when Rosales stopped his vehicle, he immediately jumped out and opened fire with what was described as an assault styled weapon.

Corporal Galloway was struck at least once in the face which killed him. Rosales allegedly then jumped back into his car and fled the scene.

Harris County Precinct 5 Constable, Ted Heap, called the death of Corporal Galloway a “brutal” attack on the deputy. He said:

“These [murders of officers] are not assaults, these are not attacks, these are brutal, brutal murders. We have to put an end to this. We cannot have people like this on our streets. I don’t want to raise my family, my grandchildren in a country where this type of crime is running rampant.”

Corporal Galloway, who leaves behind a sister and a daughter, touched many lives in the agency as he was also a field training officer. Heap said:

“There are a lot of very broken up officers who [Galloway] meant a lot in their lives because he was the one sitting in the front seat with them. He was the one who was teaching them what to do and how to get home safely to their families.”

The suspect illegally entered the country from El Salvador and fled to Mexico after allegedly committing the murder. Breitbart Texas made an official inquiry from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement regarding the legal status of the suspect, Jose Oscar Rosales, and learned he was in the country illegally. ICE officials reported they have no idea how or when he entered the country illegally before allegedly killing Harris County Precinct 5 Constable, Corporal Charles Galloway. After allegedly shooting and killing Corporal Galloway, Rosales fled the country to Mexico in hopes of evading arrest. However, Rosales apparently did not know that fleeing across the border would not stop American law enforcement from hunting down a wanted fugitive who is alleged to have murdered a police officer. Rosales was apprehended in Ciudad Acuna, Mexico on January 26th by Mexican authorities with members of the U.S. Marshal’s Service and members of the Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force. Val Verde County Sheriff, Joe Frank Martinez, spoke about the arrest of Rosales: “It was a good, coordinated effort by all agencies involved to take this individual into custody.” Shortly after he was arrested, Houston Police Detectives (who are working the murder of Corporal Galloway) arrived in Del Rio and took him into custody. Rosales was transported back to Houston where his original handcuffs were removed and replaced by Corporal Galloway’s handcuffs. The death of Corporal Galloway occurred on January 23rd when the constable, who was assigned to enforce toll road violations, pulled over a white Toyota Avalon allegedly operated by Rosales. Before Corporal Galloway could exit his vehicle, Rosales allegedly jumped out of his car and began firing on the constable, striking him at least once in the face, killing him. As expected, this is not the first time the illegal alien has been suspected of criminal activity. Harris County District Attorney Kim Ogg reported that Rosales was a wanted fugitive out of Harris County for over two decades. “It is apparent that Oscar Rosales, a 25-year-fugitive out of Harris County for the crime of aggravated assault, has been violent before.” Ogg reported that Rosales was originally charged with aggravated assault with a knife in 1995, a charge that he pled guilty to in court. The judge sentenced him to five years, however, allowed him the opportunity to do community service and report to a parole officer in lieu of serving time in prison. Instead of completing the terms of his parole and community service, he instead absconded and has been on the run since 1996. Ogg said that Rosales has ties to numerous countries, including El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. Ogg reported that Rosales may have been able to escape detection for 25 years because he has numerous aliases, including the one he used when he was sentenced. Ogg said that Rosales went by the name Maurico Aguilar Albarenga when he pled guilty to aggravated assault. Ogg suspects that Rosales has used numerous aliases throughout the year in attempts to avoid detection. Ogg went on to note that this is not the only time Rosales has been suspected of murder as he currently has an active warrant for murder in El Salvador. Authorities stated they will be contacting other Central American countries to inform them that Rosales is in custody. Ogg reported that the death penalty is on the table should Rosales be convicted in court for the murder of Corporal Galloway. She said: “This case has all the ear markings and is a death penalty case.” Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!