CHATHAM COUNTY, GA – A Georgia police officer is being hailed a hero after saving two people’s lives within 18 hours.

The Chatham County Police Department announced on Facebook how one of their officers was able to save two different people in December of 2021. The hero officer, Joseph Robertson, was able to save the lives during two shifts.

The first incident occurred on the 29th just before 4 am when Officer Robertson was dispatched to a hit and run crash. Upon his arrival, he located one of the vehicles involved who advised they were not injured.

As he was speaking with the occupants of the first vehicle, Officer Robertson noticed that the second vehicle had crashed a short distance away from the scene. Officer Robertson ran toward the vehicle which was on its side and smoking.

Officer Robertson checked to see if there were any occupants inside the car that might be injured and noticed the driver trapped inside. As Officer Robertson worked to free the driver, the vehicle caught fire, endangering not only the driver’s life but his own.

Regardless of his own personal risk, Officer Robertson continued to work to free the driver who eventually caught fire.

Officer Robertson was able to free the driver who suffered burns over 80 percent of their body in the process. Somehow, Officer Robertson was not injured during the rescue attempt.

On the next evening, Officer Robertson was working when someone called 911 reporting that a woman had stopped breathing. Officer Robertson responded to the scene and was directed to the woman who he confirmed was not breathing but did have a faint pulse.

Assuming the incident may be drug-induced, Officer Robertson administered NARCAN that he had with him and began CPR efforts until medical services responded on the scene.

When paramedics arrived, they administered additional NARCAN doses while taking over CPR. The woman regained consciousness and was transported to a local hospital where she was able to recover.

“That’s two lives saved in the span of 18 hours. If you ever need to know where to find a hero, we have them here at the Chatham County Police Department.

“Thank you for your extraordinary service, Officer Robertson. We’re proud to call you one of our own.”

While there is no mention of any interviews of Officer Robertson, odds are that he would not view himself as heroic.

Most cops that have been in similar situations and able to save lives never consider themselves that way, rather, they are happy that they just happened to be at the right place at the right time.

About 1:30 a.m., the gunman entered through the front while holding an AR-15 rifle and told the roughly 50 people in the game room that he was robbing the place. The security guard tackled the gunman, and the two started fighting over the rifle, police said. That is when the rifle went off several times before the guard and others were able to subdue the gunman, according to a report by KHOU-11 News. Police responded to the poker room after receiving initial reports of multiple gunshot victims. When they arrived, they arrested the assailant. The security guard, identified as 21-year-old Trelynn ‘Tek’ Robinson, later told media outlets about the harrowing ordeal. Robinson said the suspect entered the facility and started screaming, “Give me the money”: “While the AR was pointing towards me, that is when I leaped towards him and we wrestled with the gun for about a good minute and then it went off and upon it going off, I threw him inside a trophy case with the glass breaking and disarmed him.” Robinson said that a bullet grazed him, and his shoulder was dislocated during the confrontation: “I just went home, took a nice little shower, put some patches on my shoulder because it dislocated… but I popped it back into place.” The brave and resolute security guard even returned to work later that night. He said that he forgives his attacker: “I forgive him because I know he is probably going through some s— that caused him to do it.” Robinson denied that he was a hero, saying he only did the job he was hired to do: “People call me a hero but I ain’t (sic) no hero, I did my job. I signed up for it.” Investigators said approximately 15 shots were fired during the struggle. Despite multiple shots being fired during the incident, none of the other occupants of the poke room were injured. Robinson said the situation could have ended much worse: “The reason why the bullets are in the wall and not in anybody is because I lunged towards him the moment he pointed the gun towards me, “The guy came directly and pointed straight towards me. I was the first person he pointed that gun to.” Police have not identified the suspect and no information on charges has been released. Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!