Before it was a 25,000-plus-square-foot apartment complex, the building with a rust-colored plaque mounted on its white brick walls known as “The Colonial” was a Civil War hospital once upon a time.

And now it’s on the Washington D.C. real estate market for $13.99 million.

Located in what’s considered the “east village” of Georgetown, the property — built in 1820 — was first a school for women named Miss Lydia English’s Georgetown Female Seminary, The Washingtonian reported.

It was converted into a hospital after the Battle of Bull Run, which was considered the first significant land battle during the Civil War where Union forces were defeated by the Confederate in 1861, according to History.com.

The Washingtonian even said that “Leaves of Grass” poet Walt Whitman served as a volunteer nurse at the hospital.

Following the war, the building was converted into an apartment complex.

“In short, this is a spectacular opportunity to purchase an historically significant, architecturally important, and unusually large parcel in what many would believe is the finest location in all of Washington DC,” the listing on Zillow.com says. “Currently, the property is planned and approved for 18 upscale units with 16 on-site parking spaces located on the rear of the property.”

The building with 39 bedrooms caught the attention of the real estate fan page Zillow Gone Wild as people are transfixed by the property itself and its history.

And the topic of haunting did emerge....

“So first you do (an) inspection with Ghost Hunters, sell broadcast rights to help with the price…” one person said.

“So how many ghosts live there too?” another commented.

“First, I’d like to meet the ghosts before making any decisions,” another noted. “Need to know if they’re good tenants or not.”

“Being haunted never even crossed my mind,” someone commented. “Y’all are paranoid. I’d absolutely love to tour this place, I bet it’s amazing.”

“Haunted in good way?” another asked. “Likely also housed tuberculosis patients. I worked in several old hospitals.”

“Does it come with ghosts? For $13 million it better come with ghosts!” one person joked.

“14 million. For something on the historic register in this neighborhood?” one person said. “That’s honestly a steal.”

“Listen if it’s not haunted by some old timey civil war ghosts with handlebar mustaches who help me solve murders, I’m not interested.”