Fady Elsayed has emerged as a ‘very different’ contender to replace Jodie Whittaker in the next Doctor Who.

The British-Egyptian star, 28, has drawn the attention of the sci-fi drama’s producers and is said to be a front-runner in the race to be the 14th Doctor.

Elsayed, who was born in London, first caught the BBC bosses eyes when he appeared in the Doctor Who spin-off, Class.

He played student Ram Singh in the 2016 BBC Three show and has also made appearances in TV series like Casualty and Silent Witness.

A source told The Sun: ‘Fady would be a very different doctor – but that’s precisely what the creators want.

‘He would also be one of the most attractive.’

Elsayed once expressed being a fan of the show, saying: ‘Growing up, that was all that was on TV. I was always very aware of Doctor Who. Now I’m a huge, huge fan.’

The official announcement of who will play the 14th Doctor Who, replacing Whittaker after her four years on the show, is expected within weeks, and filming is due to start in April.

Rumours of who else could play the next Doctor include Years and Years star Olly Alexander, 31, and Lydia West, 28, who starred alongside Olly in the popular Channel 4 drama It’s A Sin.

Whittaker’s already filmed her final scenes as the Doctor and recently said leaving the sci-fi epic behind left her ‘grief-stricken’.

’I’ve shot my version of regen, and it was singularly the most emotional day on set I think I’ve ever had,’ she told Entertainment Weekly.

‘It’s a really bizarre feeling, because it’s the best time I’ve ever had on a job, and I made the decision to leave it, so it’s a really strange thing to do to yourself. It feels like you’re giving yourself stitches — like, “Why have you done it?” But… it felt right.’

She continued: ‘It was a wonderfully-celebratory-slash-grief-ridden day that I could spend with the family that I’d made.

‘I suppose the best thing about it is that the episodes are still on. So until they’re off, I don’t have to really get my head around the fact that it’s not my part!’

Doctor Who is available to stream on BBC iPlayer.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.