Plans for the upcoming Criminal Minds revival are still looking very promising, after months of confusion.

The long-running drama, following officers in the Behavioral Analysis Unit (BAU) in the FBI as they explored the behaviour of criminals, ended in 2020, after 15 years on our screens.

Following the finale, there has been talks of a reboot, with the cast left divided on whether it will ever come to fruition.

Tanya Gills has now put fears to rest at the TV Critics Association press tour, insisting that we’ll get our hands on more from BAU soon.

The chief of programming for ViacomCBS said via TVLine: ‘We are still very much in development on Criminal Minds.

‘We’ll have more to share soon on that, but it is alive and well.’

After Paget Brewster dashed all hopes of a possible revival, Joe Mantegna recently shed light on the program – and explained that he would like to return to our screens as David Rossi.

‘I think we all, especially that last eight of us that finished the show that last couple of seasons, we all have maintained a very strong bond. We still do a thread with each other, as well as some of the people that were on it for just a certain amount of time and moved on. I would be more than happy to continue that,’ he told Looper.

‘I think there’s more stories to be told, and the family link – I know that word gets thrown around lightly sometimes in this business, but we really did create a pretty strong family there. If and when we’re given that opportunity, I think we’ll all be ready to embrace it, but still, the verdict’s not in yet, but hopefully it’s moving in a good direction.’

The original series ran for 15 seasons and included various spin-offs in that time, but while Joe isn’t expecting the same this time around, he is relishing the thought of reuniting with his former co-stars, including Matthew Gray Gubler and Kirsten Vangsness.

’I think we were onto a good formula, a good chemistry of people, and telling good stories. I think all that remains now are all these business decisions that are probably just holding it up,’ he added.

‘In other words, I don’t think it’s an artistic kind of thing. I think we’re ready to go. I think, artistically, all we would need to be is given the go that says, “Yeah, hit it!” and we’ll jump in and see where it takes us.’

Criminal Minds is available to stream on Disney +.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Doctor Who spin-off star Fady Elsayed emerges as front-runner to replace Jodie Whittaker as ‘very different’ Doctor

MORE : Vernon Kay slammed after hailing carer who lost job over refusal to have Covid vaccine a ‘hero’ on This Morning