The popularity of CBD in health, wellness, beauty fields, and beyond is ever on the rise. Cannabidiol, also known as CBD, is one of many compounds naturally derived from cannabis and hemp plants. It has been found to contain vital antioxidants and strong anti-inflammatory properties that show beneficial for things from anxiety and stress relief to pain management and mitigation. CBD produced within the United States must come from cannabis or hemp plants containing less than 0.3% THC (the psychoactive compound commonly associated with marijuana), allowing CBD to be legally sold and distributed.

There are countless products to choose from on the CBD market these days, especially when looking to buy CBD online. When it comes to finding quality CBD products, fact-checking with third-party lab test results is the best way to ensure a legitimate CBD purchase. Real Tested CBD is a leading name in the world of CBD product reviews and independent lab testing. We give you everything you need to know before buying CBD online, from pesticide and solvent test results to potency and label claim fact-checking. Turn to Real Tested CBD and our expert scorecard rating system to get the best CBD product for individual needs, in just about any form you can think of. Today we bring you a few products from Bespoke Extracts:

“Your health is our pride. Bespoke doesn’t compromise on quality; we are committed to producing the safest, most effective CBD products on the market. We honor this commitment in the growth and extraction of our hemp, our carefully crafted products, and our meticulous manufacturing procedures.” – Bespoke Extracts

First we have Bespoke 3C CBD + CBG Tincture in a berry flavor and 1200mg. This oil gets a recommended review from our experts and is of the same high quality as their other oils. With over 500mg (761mg) of CBG this is a great product for you if you are looking for CBG as well as other rare cannabinoids. This oil passed all solvent and pesticide tests and has a great berry flavor, making this oil and safe and delicious choice.

Next, we bring you another oil from Bespoke, their 3C CBD + CBG tincture in 2000mg and a tasty mint flavor. This oil got a recommended review from our experts, and a high score of 88 out of 100. This oil is similar to other Bespoke tinctures, containing plenty of rare cannabinoids, including a massive 1230mg of CBG! This oil a great choice if you are looking for high CBG full-spectrum CBD product. Another perk, the minty flavor makes this oil go down very smoothly.

Another great oil from Bespoke is their Recovery CBD Tincture in a citrus flavor and 2000mg. This oil gets another recommended review from our experts. With passes on all solvent and pesticide tests and the number of rare cannabinoids in this oil, this is a high-quality full-spectrum CBD oil. This oil has over 1200mg of CBG and over 1100mg of CBD, making the cost right around $0.08 per milligram of CBD.

Now we have another CBG heavy oil from Bespoke with their Recovery CBD + CBG Tincture in 2000mg. This oil gets another recommended review and a score of 88 out of 100 on our scale. With over 1200mg of CBD and CBG, this oil is packed with cannabinoids. This full-spectrum oil passed all solvent and pesticide tests and is accurate to all label claim on all fronts. If you are looking for a good CBD oil with lots of cannabinoids this could be a great choice for you.

Finally, we have Bespoke’s Comfort CBD + CBN Oil. This oil gets a highly recommended review from our experts and a high score of 90 out of 100 and the 9th spot in our Best CBD Oil category. This oil is packed with rare cannabinoids, containing over 100mg of CBN and CBC, as well as 15mg of CBG and over 2000mg of CBD. This is a truly full-spectrum oil with a great chance at the entourage effect. This oil also offers a great value for customers, costing just $0.05 per milligram of CBD. We highly recommend this oil if you are looking for a fairly high-dose full-spectrum CBD oil.

A discontinued product still available at a discounted price from Bespoke Extracts is their lemon-lime flavor Full-Spectrum 1500mg CBD Oil. This oil passed all residual solvent and pesticide tests and has a nice flavor to it. This CBD oil also tested right on the label claim for CBD, but is lacking most of the rare cannabinoids we like to see from a full-spectrum product. There were however trace amounts of THCV. This oil received a recommended review from our expert staff because it does offer a great value to consumers, costing just around $0.03 per milligram of CBD.

One more discontinued product still available at a discounted price, we have Bespoke Extracts THC-Free Isolate Soft-Gels. These CBD capsules tested fairly accurate to the label claim with over 1300mg of CBD. As advertised, this a CBD isolate product so there are no other rare cannabinoids and no entourage effect. These soft-gels rank just outside our top ten in the Best CBD Capsule category. They are an extremely inexpensive option for a high milligram CBD amount capsule, costing about $0.02 per milligram of CBD. If you are looking for an affordable CBD isolate capsule, these may be the ideal choice for you.

Finding a reliable CBD product online can be made easy by turning to third-party lab test results. Ensure you are actually getting your bang for your buck and purchasing a legit CBD product that works, but also has the quality you are seeking. Not all CBD is created equal, and when it comes to Bespoke Extracts, reliability is there. The Bespoke Extracts products we tested were fairly accurate to label claims and offered an affordable option for customers. Overall, we give Bespoke CBD a recommended review. Always turn to Real Tested CBD for your most reliable and unbiased product reviews. For more Real Tested CBD Brand Spotlights, click here.

** This article was last updated on 1/4/2022 **

The news and editorial staff of the Bay Area News Group had no role in this post’s preparation.