Lauren Goodger has responded to questions of feeling ‘guilt’ for her newborn daughter, after revealing she was expecting another baby.

Last month the reality star revealed she fell pregnant just eight weeks after welcoming daughter Larose with on-off partner Charles Drury.

In an Instagram Q&A on Wednesday morning, the former Towie star was asked a range of questions about the impending birth, including whether or not she was feeling ‘guilty’ for falling pregnant while her first daughter was still so young.

One of her followers asked: ‘Do you not feel guilty on Larose being pregnant again so early?’

Lauren dismissed the idea of mum guilt, as she insisted Larose will always be her ‘little best friend’ and was now also getting a ‘friend for life’ in her new sibling.

She wrote: ‘I love her soooo much she my girl she always will be my little best friend and she about to get a gift from me a baby sister someone by her side through everything and a friend for life [sic].’

Also asked how she ‘manages’ with a pregnancy and a newborn, the star replied: ‘I don’t know it’s 24/7 but power of being a mum.

‘I feel very rewarded every night I go to bed another beautiful day of raising

my baby.’

Sadly the star also claimed she didn’t have a strong support system in place, writing: ‘No it’s very much me baby and pregnancy.’

Elsewhere, Lauren revealed she thinks she’s landed on a baby name for the new addition to the family, while also sharing her nerves ahead of giving birth so soon again.

When she was asked whether she wanted more children in the future, Lauren (perhaps to little surprise) remarked she was ‘happy with two at the minute’.

Last month Lauren confirmed she is expecting another baby girl days after Charles admitted to sleeping with another woman when they were on a short break.

‘I hadn’t had a period for quite a few weeks, my nipples were killing me and when I was breastfeeding the pain was unbearable,’ Lauren shared. ‘I thought, “I bet you I’m pregnant!” I did a test and it said positive.’

Lauren continued to OK! magazine: ‘We weren’t very careful and Charlie was really pleased, but being honest I was really in two minds about it.

‘I was like, “I’m just getting myself back together – I’m going back to square one. Is this fair?” You get real mum guilt, like, “What about Larose?”

‘She’s still a baby, she still needs me, I won’t be able to be there for her.’

Lauren added that Charles really wanted the baby too, which prompted her to go ahead with the pregnancy.

Charles, 24, announced he had split from Lauren, 35, in November just four months after they welcomed Larose.

Lauren later said she will raise her two daughters as a single mother, saying: ‘I’m excited about having another baby and if I’m a single mum then great.

‘I’ll raise two kids on my own and it’ll be rewarding.’

MORE : Pregnant Lauren Goodger smiles on outing with baby daughter after Charles Drury admits sleeping with other woman

MORE : Lauren Goodger’s ex Charles Drury vows to ‘learn from mistakes’ after admitting to sleeping with another woman

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.