Jack Wilshere has been blown away by Gabriel Martinelli in training and says Mikel Arteta’s handling of the Arsenal forward has been ‘genius’.

Arsenal offered Wilshere the chance to train with the first team and coach the academy teams throughout January as the free agent looked for a new club.

Wilshere says he was impressed by highly-rated duo Bukayo Saka and Emile Smith Rowe but reserved special praise for Martinelli and insisted the Brazilian is ‘going to be top’.

Arsenal fans were baffled by Martinelli’s bit-part role earlier in the season but the 20-year-old has become an increasingly important member of Arteta’s squad, scoring three goals in the victories over West Ham and Leeds United in December.

Asked which Arsenal players have impressed him over the past month, Wilshere told Arsenal Media: ‘The obvious ones, who everyone knows about are Bukayo and Emile. I think you’ve just got to look at the level that they are setting.

‘The consistency that they’re putting in every week, their performances and they’ve got a manager as well who trusts them and I think if you’re a young player at Arsenal coming through the academy now, you should look at that and think, “Well, if I’m good enough, I’m going to get a chance, no matter how old I am.”

‘Yes, you’ve got to work hard and prove yourself, but with a manager who believes in youth and wants to build a young, hungry team, so they’ve all got a chance.

‘I mentioned before their consistency levels which is sometimes rare for a young player, a lot of time you see a young player come in, have a good game, three or four good games, maybe one or two bad games, but with Emile and Saka, it seems to be they’re doing it week in, week out, they’re making the right decisions all the time.

‘But the one who I really like and think he’s going to be top, is Martinelli. I think what the manager has done with him has been genius as well.

‘When I first went there he was training, coming on, not playing much, but training really well and I was thinking, ‘He’s going to get a chance here’ and he eventually got his chance and he’s been brilliant.

‘He was the Player of the Month and he’s been brilliant and he trains like that every day as well.’

Wilshere described his time back at Arsenal as ‘perfect’ and says competing with Premier League players has given him confidence as he seeks a new club.

‘It’s been perfect and just what I needed at the right time because everyone knew before I was training on my own,’ the former England star added.

‘I was training hard, but there’s only a certain level of fitness you can get when you’re running around a pitch or running up and down a pitch.

‘There comes a time when you have to be around players and it helps that they’re good players as well, the level is high, it took me a few weeks to get up to the speed of things, but now I feel really good. As you said, I probably need some games, but in terms of sharpness and training fitness, I’m ready.

‘I think coming into that I probably didn’t think that [I needed a lift] and didn’t know it, but it’s helped my confidence massively because of the standard of player, being around players every day, training every day, and just showing myself that I can still do it and if I can do it against players at this level, I back myself to do it at a pretty high level.’

Wilshere spent almost two decades at Arsenal, first in the club’s academy and then as a key member of Arsene Wenger’s first-team squad.

The midfielder made 197 appearances for the Gunners and helped the club win two FA Cups.

‘Arsenal is home for me,’ he added. ‘I remember when I was here last time and one of the old players, I won’t say his name because I don’t think it’s fair, said to me, “You don’t realise how good Arsenal is until you leave and what a family it is” and then I left and I realised he was right.

‘But one thing as well is the family values. When I was down, when I was low, they reached out to give me an opportunity to come back and train and build my confidence up again, build my fitness up and I’ll be forever grateful for that.’

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.