Lockdown meant being in close proximity with partners in a new and intense way.

Many predicted we’d see divorce stats rise over the pandemic as couples either pulled together or apart.

However, the latest divorce statistics for the year of 2020 paint a different picture.

In England and Wales, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS), there were 103,592 divorces – which is a decrease of 4.5% when compared with 2019.

The vast majority were among opposite-sex couples (98.9%).

Among same-sex couples, there were 1,154 divorces, which is an increase of 40.4% on the previous year. Most of these were in female couples.

The most commonly cited reason by wives for divorce was ‘unreasonable behaviour’, while for husbands it was on account of a two-year separation.

While stats show that overall couples are staying together that bit more, the effect of the pandemic on relationships won’t fully reveal itself until data from 2021 and 2022 is available.

Aidan Jones, chief executive at Relate, a relationship charity, said: ‘There has been much speculation about whether the pandemic would lead to an increase in divorces but today’s statistics show this has not so far held true.

‘From counselling couples and individuals during successive lockdowns and from our own research, we know the pandemic brought pre-existing relationship tensions to a head – particularly around issues like parenting styles, finances and trust.’

Perhaps 2020 saw couples attempt to work on their partnerships, given the extreme circumstances, rather than give in.

Aidan continued: ‘The majority of those who didn’t [want to work things out] would have struggled to get a divorce granted in 2020 in between all the restrictions and temporary suspension of family courts.

‘The effects of the pandemic on relationships – both good and bad – are likely to be felt for some time.

‘The rise in divorces among same sex couples in 2020 was significant but you would naturally expect divorces to increase in line with the number of married same sex couples.’

This April, UK laws will allow for ‘no-fault divorce’, which means no wrongdoing needs to be proven in order for divorce to be granted.

It will likely have a further impact on divorce statistics in the next couple of years.

‘We very much support the move which will help to end the ‘blame game’ and is in the best interests of any children involved,’ Aidan adds.

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.

MORE : How I Made It: ‘I help people get over their divorce – life is too short’

MORE : Woman thought husband wanted a divorce when he asked for a ‘serious chat’ – but he’d bought her a castle

MORE : Couples who meet online are ‘six times more likely to get divorced’