We’ve all been there.

We’re having sex, we’re loving it, then all of a sudden… we are thinking about what we’re going to make for dinner tomorrow.

It’s perfectly natural for your mind to wander during sex, and it doesn’t necessarily mean the sex is bad. But it can lead to overthinking and kill the mood as you struggle to get back in the moment.

If this frustrating feeling sounds familiar, you’re not alone. A new study has revealed that almost half of Brits (49%) struggle to concentrate when having sex with their partner.

The study, conducted by Lenstore, shockingly found that one in six (14%) admitted they can’t even go 10 minutes without checking their phone during sex.

It isn’t only sex that we struggle to focus on, six in 10 (61%) revealed they get distracted when talking to their partner, and over half (50%) admitted their mind wanders to other places when kissing them.

Life coach Julie Leonard says those who struggle to pay attention during these intimate moments may be struggling with stress, as well as feeling overwhelmed and exhausted.

‘Noticing when your mind wanders when you are with your partner is the first step,’ she advises.

‘Try not to be thinking of what you want to say next, rather focus on actively listening and giving them your full attention. Focus on their facial expressions and body language, find new activities to do together and spend time cultivating closeness.’

But when it comes to sex, we want to be there, we want to feel it, notice it, experience it. Drifting off into other distractions and worries can ruin your pleasure, and leave your partner feeling upset or insecure as well.

So, how do we stay mindful and present during sex?

Charisse Cooke, sex and relationship therapist, says it’s not uncommon for your minds to wander during certain parts of sex.

‘Intense sexual experiences cannot happen each and every time, and that’s OK,’ Charisse tells Metro.co.uk. ‘Having sex is a wonderful time to connect however, so to stay engaged and get the most out of the sexual act, it’s useful to know ways to stay present in the moment and attentive to the intimacy you are sharing with your partner.’

First, she says it’s vital to try to get out of your head.

‘Focus on parts of your body or your partner’s body, to tune into the sensual nature of what you are doing,’ she says. ‘This allows us to deepen our understanding of what’s arousing for us and our partners.’

Another tactic is to make some noise.

‘Sometimes, just expressing pleasure and enjoyment a little bit more vocally keeps us present and it amplifies the experience,’ she says. ‘It also sets the tone and creates a sexy atmosphere.’

Finally, Charisse says you should always focus on the emotions of sex, as well as the physicality of the act.

‘Remember to make love,’ she adds. ‘Bringing our attention to our partners and how much we love and care for them, what we think is cute and attractive about them, or things we’re grateful for about them, can remind us of the lovemaking element of sex.

‘As an act of love we can take the opportunity to focus our mind on the love we have for our partners.

‘This can create a beautiful and powerful energy between you both.’

Tips to improve your sex life if you're in a slump Issues don’t start in the bedroom. If you want your sex life to get back on track, you’ll need to use your mouths. ‘Open and loving communication is always the first step in improving your sex life; the more open you are, the stronger your connection will be,’ says couples therapist Dr Katherine Hertlein. Dr Katherine says: ‘Setting time aside to be intimate, not just sexually but emotionally, is necessary for a healthy sex life. ‘Your sex life needs to be about more than just intercourse. The lead up to sex is just as important as the act itself; it’s about taking your time, enjoying each other and finding intimacy and connection.’ ‘Practicing being more present when kissing your partner can boost feelings of connection, so no matter how busy you both are, try and make time to kiss for longer,’ suggests Dr Katherine. ‘Try kissing for six seconds; it can be anything from a sensual lip-biting kiss, to gently nibbling all the way up to their ear and back again – you’re guaranteed to feel closer.’

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.

MORE : Dividing housework equally is ‘just as important’ as sex in a relationship

MORE : How I Do It: ‘We get steamy in the shower after a glass of wine – this is my week in sex’

MORE : Ex-burglars reveal common social media posts they use to help them steal your stuff