Joe Wicks couldn’t resist addressing a clip doing the rounds on social media, in which Loose Women panellist Carol McGiffin admitted she ‘really doesn’t like him.’

The fitness guru helped the country through the first Covid lockdown with his morning YouTube workouts, in an attempt to keep everyone active.

But the nation’s favourite PE teacher wasn’t everyone’s cup of tea, and Loose Women’s Carol previously made her thoughts very clear, when she probably thought the cameras weren’t rolling.

In the resurfaced video that was shared on TikTok, host Ruth Langsford informed viewers Joe would appear as a guest in the next episode.

Ruth said: ‘Tomorrow, we’ve got the nation’s PE teacher Joe Wicks, who is going to be warming us up by coming by for a natter. Have a lovely afternoon’

However, as the cameras panned away from the panel, Carol turned to co-star Linda Robson and made a remark about Joe.

She told her: ‘I really don’t like him. I don’t like him. Don’t like him.’

Joe cheekily reposted the TV moment with a couple of snaps of himself with awkward expressions.

Luckily, he seemed to find the incident quite amusing, with viewers commenting their support to Joe on the initial Tik Tok post.

‘Is there anyone Carol actually likes?’ asked one, with another joking: ’I don’t think she likes him!’

‘Could have been much worse though,’ pointed out another fan, with a viewer adding: ’How can you not like Joe Wicks?!!!!’

It comes amid Carol denying she is involved in a feud with fellow ITV star, Lorraine Kelly.

She was responding to a tweet featuring other TV stars such as Piers Morgan, Karren Brady and Dr Hilary Jones, which had the caption: ‘Profiting from other people’s misfortune. Msm [mainstream media] mercenaries.’

Resharing the picture, Carol added: ‘I’d go further than that. They are revolting human beings and that’s being generous.’

However, she later said featuring Lorraine was an error, telling The Mirror: ‘Unfortunately I retweeted it without looking at the whole picture.’

‘I didn’t see the bottom row and I deleted it as soon as I saw lovely Lorraine who has no place in that rogues gallery.’

Metro.co.uk has contacted representatives for Carol McGiffin for comment.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Lorraine Kelly staggered by Rihanna’s New York pregnancy photoshoot revealing baby bump: ‘It’s freezing!’

MORE : This Morning host Phillip Schofield tests positive for Covid-19 hours after ITV appearance