North Korea’s dictator appeared unsteady on his feet in a new propaganda video recapping his achievements of 2021.

The clip tells how hard Kim Jong-un has been working to overcome the nation’s ‘worst-ever hardships’ – while showing him riding a white horse on a beach as the sun sets in the background.

It doesn’t elaborate on the nature of these hard times, but the economy is thought to have taken a huge hit due to border closures to keep Covid out of the country.

North Korea relies on trade with China, and a series of recent typhoons and floods have left the country dangerously low on supplies.

One of the scenes depicted in the video is believed to be a visit made by Kim to a construction site in the capital Pyongyang in August 2021.

He was shown having a cigarette while touring the site and struggling to climb down a set of temporary stairs.

Men standing either side of him, who don’t appear to be having any trouble with their descent, appear ready to catch their leader if he falls.

‘This video showed his motherly side where he completely dedicated his own body to realise people’s dreams,’ the narrator says over the footage.

Kim’s visit to the site was previously talked about in state media, but only photographs of him touring the new neighbourhood were published initially.

The inspection marked the first time the tyrant had been seen in public for three weeks up to that point – one of several extended absences last year.

Speculation about Kim’s health has mounted since he disappeared for 21 days in 2020, leading to rumours that he died or was seriously ill.

Footage of a military conference in July showed the leader with a large plaster on the back of his head, raising further questions about his wellbeing.

But there appears to be no evidence of the mysterious mark in the new propaganda presentation, which mixes previously unseen footage with older clips.

The film did not refer directly to Kim’s weight loss, but he has appeared significantly thinner in recent photos.

In June, North Korean state media said the nation was ‘heartbroken’ to see their ’emaciated’ leader, in a rare acknowledgement of his health.

It is thought Kim is now no longer able to import his fried chicken, champagne and his beloved Swiss cheese due to the country’s self-imposed ‘zero Covid’ policy.

But North Korea expert Dr. Sojin Lim recently told Metro.co.uk how he could be working this to his advantage by crafting an image as a ‘man of the people’ while people in his country starve.

Uncertainties remain over who would succeed Kim after his death, so experts and intelligence agencies keep a close eye on his health.

The newly released video also shows Kim on a horse ride with military officials including Pak Jong Chon, chief of the General Staff of the Korean People’s Army, MailOnline reports.

It also shows tanks carrying out live-fire drills, helicopters releasing colourful flares, images of a new 80-storey skyscraper and apartment district.

A large arsenal is shown in footage of a defence expo, along with recent missile tests which have inflamed tensions on the Korean peninsula.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.