Vernon Kay has been criticised for calling a carer a ‘hero’ who lost her job after refusing to have the Covid-19 vaccine, with This Morning viewers questioning why she was given a platform on the show.

On Wednesday’s edition of the ITV programme, Vernon and Rochelle Humes spoke to Louise in the ITV studio, who worked in the care sector for 14 years before her contract was terminated as she declined to have the coronavirus jab amid the ongoing pandemic.

While thinking about the notion of Louise losing her job straight away over her decision, Rochelle said: ‘I feel for you so much when I think about that.’

When Vernon asked why Louise was resistant to have the vaccine, she explained that she didn’t ‘trust’ it as it was ‘so new’, and said that she didn’t want to have something that was in ‘trials still’. The NHS states that Covid-19 vaccines ‘are safe and effective’ and provide ‘the best protection’ against the virus.

Louise also said that antibodies were found in her blood after undergoing a test, and she was testing every day, wearing PPE and following other procedures, as she questioned how she was ‘putting anybody at risk’ and the fact that people who have been vaccinated can still pass on the virus.

The NHS outlines that the Covid-19 vaccine can ‘reduce your risk of getting seriously ill or dying from Covid-19’, ‘reduce your risk of catching or spreading Covid-19’ and ‘protect against Covid-19 variants.’

Vernon said that in his opinion, Louise’s story ‘spoke to their hearts’, hailing her as a ‘hero’ and leading a round of applause for her in the studio.

Several This Morning viewers voiced their anger over the interview with Louise, with one tweeting: ‘I’m so hurt, angry & shocked…it was a disgusting piece on national TV. @vernonkay I thought more of you!’ an angered viewer wrote,

‘After that interview I will not not be watching @thismorning again when these two are presenting. Shame on @vernonkay,’ another said.

‘Vernon and Rochelle should apologise for that nauseating, biased interview and clapping???! She’s an idiot not a hero,’ someone else remarked.

‘Really? You are clapping her? Could you be any more sycophantic if you tried. Instead of challenging her incorrect statements, you just continued to tell her what a hero she is,’ one person wrote.

A viewer revealed they had submitted a complaint to media watchdog Ofcom over the conversation.

‘Fuming that she was given a platform to spout misinformation and didn’t get challenged #ThisMorning need to do better than this,’ another said.

However, some people came to Louise’s defence, with one writing: ‘Some people are so wrapped up in judging other people for their vaccine statues that they don’t see what’s actually happening. A vaccine doesn’t determine a person or how well that person can do their job.’

Another viewer described the This Morning guest as a ‘kind, caring woman’, wishing her luck on her hope for a career as a lorry driver.

This Morning airs weekdays at 10am on ITV.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : This Morning: Where is Phillip Schofield and when will he be back?

MORE : This Morning host Phillip Schofield tests positive for Covid-19 hours after ITV appearance