Lorraine Kelly was not happy with Simon Cowell after it was claimed he wasn’t wearing a helmet when he crashed his bike again.

The X Factor star was admitted to hospital in west London, according to reports, which came just 18 months after his crash in Los Angeles.

The previous incident left him with a broken back, but the star luckily appears to be less badly hurt this time.

On Wednesday’s edition of Lorraine, showbiz correspondent Ross King updated Lorraine on the latest celebrity news with Simon’s accident at the top of the agenda.

He said of Simon’s condition: ‘Thankfully he’s doing okay, it was only 18 months ago I was coming to you from a hospital outside Santa Monica.’

Ross explained how Simon was thrown over his handlebars handlebars around 20 miles per hour while not wearing a helmet, ending up with suspected concussion and a broken arm.

Lorraine quickly expressed her annoyance after Ross described the accident, telling him: ‘You’ve got to wear a helmet, Simon!

‘Everyone’s got to wear a helmet, for goodness sake!’

She added of Simon: ‘But he’s okay and he’s getting better, which is all good.’

After Simon’s crash was announced, a source said: ‘Simon is lucky to be alive.

‘He was pedalling along, with his electric motor on, when the wheels suddenly went from under him after hitting a wet patch.’

They added to The Sun: ‘He slipped and went flying over the handlebars into the middle of the road.’

It comes just a day after Simon and the rest of Britain’s Got Talent judges completed auditions for the hit series at the London Palladium.

A source added to People that Simon is ‘fine’ and is already back home.

Metro.co.uk has contacted reps for Simon Cowell for comment.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : This Morning: Where is Phillip Schofield and when will he be back?

MORE : Mel B still wakes up ‘drenched in shame, sweat and fear’ due to PTSD five years after abusive relationship