The sister of murdered MP Jo Cox has described the moment she collected her MBE as ‘bittersweet’.

Kim Leadbeater, who now represents the same seat that was occupied by her sister, received the honour for her work tackling social isolation.

Speaking after the investiture ceremony with Princess Anne at Windsor Castle she said she was proud of the work but it was a constant reminder of her sister’s death.

‘Any occasion that I attend, particularly something of this magnitude, for me is always bittersweet, because ultimately, the fundamental reason I’m here is because of Jo’s murder.’ she said.

‘So it’s an emotional day as well, but I also know that Jo would be incredibly proud of everything that we’ve done in her name.’

Ms Cox was killed in 2016 when she was shot and stabbed by a neo-Nazi outside her constituency surgery a week before the EU referendum.

The More In Common initiative and Jo Cox Foundation set up in her name have since pioneered work on fighting social isolation.

Ms Leadbeater was elected as the MP for Batley and Spen in a by-election last summer and has helped deliver food and medicine to people in need in her constituency.

During the pandemic, she stepped up her efforts as millions faced isolation in lockdown, including setting up a national coalition of hundreds of organisations that joined forces to address the issue.

She said she would celebrate the honour by doing Zoom calls with her parents and her sister’s children to ‘show them that Auntie Kim has been to Windsor Castle, was thinking about mummy and them’.

Ms Leadbeater added: ‘I’m so incredibly proud of those first few years of the Jo Cox commission on loneliness and the results of that in that we’ve got the world’s first ever minister for loneliness – Tracey Crouch MP’.

The MP has just signed up to co-chair the All Party Parliamentary Group on loneliness and connecting communities, and is also focusing on issues such as mental health, education and children’s health and wellbeing in Parliament.

She said: ‘It’s not just psychological damage that loneliness can do, there’s a physical impact as well.

‘The research that we did through the Jo Cox commission said that it’s as dangerous as having 15 cigarettes a day.’

She has previously called for MPs’ safety to be taken more seriously in the wake of her sister’s murder, as well as that of Sir David Amess who was stabbed to death while he held a constituency surgery in October.

Asked whether she felt safe as a politician, she said: ‘I think we’ve seen some positive steps in the area of MPs’ safety, but I think there is more work to be done.

‘I have to say, the vast majority of time I feel fine, but that’s because I’ve taken all the help has been offered.’

She went on to say: ‘I think there’s this broader piece of work to be done around why people are so angry, and why we find it acceptable to take that anger and frustration out on the next person that we come across, whether that’s an MP or whether it’s a nurse or a taxi driver.

‘And I’ve often said, I’m extremely angry about what’s happened to my life, but what I try and do is channel that anger into doing something positive and trying to make a positive difference.’

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.