Warning: spoilers ahead for The Book of Boba Fett episode 6 on Disney Plus.

We. Were. Not. Ready. For That.

Episode 6 of The Book of Boba Fett took last week’s incredible instalment and built on it tenfold, with The Mandalorian cameos, classic Star Wars callbacks with Luke Skywalker, arguably some of the most incredible CGI ever shown on TV and heart-wrenching moments that left fans in tears.

Honestly, Dave Filoni (the director of this fine piece of art) – what are you doing to us?!

In episode five, it was teased that the Mandalorian (Pedro Pascal) would seek out his surrogate son Grogu (aka Baby Yoda), who’s currently training in the ways of the Force with Jedi Master Luke (Mark Hamill).

The fact that we actually saw the Child’s return, as well as flawlessly de-aged Luke, was a treat many fans would not have been expecting in The Book of Boba Fett rather than The Mandalorian season three… let alone in the penultimate episode of the series, as opposed to the finale.

This instalment felt more like a fully-fledged movie with all its twists and turns, with the return of several Star Wars legends – including Ahsoka Tano (Rosario Dawson) and Cobb Vanth (Timothy OIyphant) and certain individuals sharing the screen for the first time.

Plus, a menacing character who appears in the Star Wars animated TV series The Clone Wars made his live-action debut in spectacular form.

Luke Skywalker trains Grogu in the ways of the Force

When the younger version of Luke showed up in the season two finale of The Mandalorian, it was one of the most epic moments in Star Wars history.

Viewers weren’t sure if we’d see him again, or if that legendary entrance was a one-off.

While many were impressed with the technology used to make Mark look like the younger version of his iconic character, some noticed various flaws in the CGI.

However, for Luke’s second outing in a Disney Plus series, the CGI was absolutely breathtaking to behold, as the Jedi Master set about training Grogu in the ways of the Force in the hope that he’ll become his first student of his academy.

Not only was it a delight to watch Luke train Grogu, complete with references to Yoda, the spherical training remote seen in the first Star Wars film and the offering of a mini lightsaber for his student, but we also saw him appear alongside Ahsoka for the first time.

Ahsoka speaks to Luke about his father Anakin

Yes, Ahsoka is back! Following Din Djarin’s arrival on the planet where Grogu is training with Luke, she goes to meet the Mandalorian, questioning his intentions for paying a visit to his surrogate son.

After finally convincing Mando that it would be best for him not to see Baby Yoda face-to-face, she takes the gift from him to give to the Child, which turns out to be the tiniest, cutest piece of chainmail to ever exist.

Ahsoka speaks to Luke while watching him train, referencing his father, Anakin Skywalker, who was her mentor and, of course, went on to become Darth Vader, as she said: ‘Sometimes the student guides the master.’

As Ahsoka heads off, giving Luke the gift Mando left for Grogu, the Jedi Master asks her if he’ll ever see her again.

‘Perhaps,’ she replies… perhaps hinting at an appearance from Luke in her upcoming eponymous series. We can dream!

Having been introduced in the series in The Mandalorian season two, Cobb – who was previously in possession of Boba Fett’s armour – returns, as Mando goes to him asking whether he’d be willing to fight alongside him on behalf of Boba Fett (Temuera Morrison).

While Cobb no longer has the armour to protect him, the region he oversees as mayor – now renamed ‘Freetown’ – appears to be flourishing well.

That is, until they receive a visit from an unexpected, mysterious individual.

At the end of the episode, Cobb is greeted by bounty hunter Cad Bane (David Pasquesi), who warns him not to align himself with Boba and to work with him and the Syndicate instead.

In a tense shoot-out, Cobb is shot seemingly in the shoulder, his fate left uncertain as Cad walks away ominously.

Fans of Star Wars: The Clone Wars were ecstatic to see Cad show up, having first been introduced in the animated series in 2008.

In addition to the Clone Wars, the bounty hunter from the planet Duro also appeared in the 2021 series The Bad Batch, making his live-action debut in The Book of Boba Fett.

While he is a villainous character, often working for sketchy individuals including the Hutts, many viewers were still raving over one of their favourite characters showing up.

Considering he’s revered as one of the most fearsome bounty hunters in the galaxy… how will he fare if he comes up against the Mandalorian or Boba in next week’s season finale?

The Book of Boba Fett is available to watch on Disney Plus with new episodes released on Wednesdays.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : The Book of Boba Fett episode 5: The Mandalorian’s Luke Skywalker actor makes surprise cameo

MORE : The Book of Boba Fett episode 5 recap: The Mandalorian twist blows fans’ minds as they hail ‘best Star Wars episode ever’