We tend to hold up buying a property as the ideal, far ahead of renting.

If you’ve got enough money for a deposit, you should buy a place and get on the property ladder, right? Otherwise, so the thinking goes, you’re just chucking your money out of the window.

This isn’t always the case.

Some people prefer renting for the flexibility, or to live in unusual places that aren’t ever going up for sale.

For those types, this townhouse in Knightsbridge, London, might be of interest.

For everyone else… probably not, as it’s up for rent for £16,500 a week.

The seven-bedroom terraced house sits on Herbert Crescent, right by Sloane Street, Brompton Road, and Pont Street, and opposite Harrods.

Covering 5,961 sq ft, it was built in the Victorian era back in the 1890s in a mock Tudor style, with a black timber frame and pitched gables at the top of the house.

The exterior is all red brick and classic Victorian, with prominent bay windows and decorative wrought iron balconies, plus a tall, twisted brick chimney stacks.

Enter through the iron railings, up the wide stone steps, and through the front door and you’ll be greeted by a large hallway with a grand staircase, stained glass windows, and a Venetian chandelier.

To the left is the massive dining room, complete with traditional coving and silk Chinoiserie wallpaper, while to the right is the drawing room, where you can sit and watch the fancy people stroll by.

To the rear of the ground floor is a garden room, which opens on to the patio.

Go up the wooden staircase and you’ll find another drawing room, which has its own balcony, and a study.

Up again and there’s the principal bedroom suite, taking up the entire second floor. This has an en suite bathroom with marble walls, along with a dressing room.

On the upper two levels are five further bedrooms (with the seventh back on the ground floor) with two en-suite bathrooms and four separate ones.

‘It is extremely rare in Knightsbridge to find a full townhouse with period features not just preserved but cherished over the last 130 years rather than the property being compartmentalised into multiple homes,’ says Elinor Ward, the director of Dexters South Kensington and Knightbridge.

‘Other significant features of this gem are the wellbeing suite in the basement and outside space, that has its own private entrance.

‘All of these traits have become exceedingly important in the mind of tenants in central London over the course of the pandemic.’

We know all this sounds glorious, so before you get too carried away, let us remind you of the price.

This place is available to rent for £16,500 a week – or £71,500 per month. That’s around 45 times the average rent in London.

If that somehow fits within your budget – or you have 13 friends who would be up for £5,107 a month for rent (and are okay with sharing rooms) – you can book a viewing through Dexters.

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.