I still remember no.74 was beef with green pepper and black bean sauce.

As Chinese New Year comes around once again, and we enter the year of the tiger, there’ll be many people who will be paying their local Chinese takeaways for dinner to celebrate. But I have had a different experience of takeaways.

I am just one of many of thousands of second-generation immigrant kids who grew up in their family’s food business. And, to this day, over a decade later, I can still recall the numbers of the most popular dishes on the menu (although my brothers always beat me when we test one another to see who can remember the most.)

We lived above the shop front of our takeaway, Blythe Bridge Chinese, in Stoke-on-Trent. It was home for me since I was born and throughout most of my school years until my parents bought a separate home and we moved when I was about 11. It was a unique experience to say the least. The woks would still be rattling away downstairs when I went to bed on a school night, and I wouldn’t even bat an eyelid at the sight of a huge piece of pig marinating away when I got home.

But while I look back now with fond memories, there were times when I was younger that I hated my upbringing. There were only a few close friends who I’d invite around as I was very embarrassed about how different my living situation was from everyone else I knew.

As cooks were shouting orders in the background while we played with dolls, I was jealous of my friends’ bedrooms as I had to share with my parents due to the lack of space.

Then, as I got older, there were parties on the weekend I’d sometimes miss out on, as I had started working by taking orders on the phone at the age of 12. There were also moments that, at the time, I didn’t understand were racism.

People would ring up and put on a ‘Chinese’ accent to make prank calls, but my dad never said anything because he couldn’t afford to lose any business. I remember being confused as to why people were copying how my dad spoke, and now looking back I feel sad that he had to put on a brave face and go through that.

But things weren’t always bad. I’ve got great memories of spending time with my family, which I wouldn’t have if my parents had been working conventional 9 to 5 jobs. Because of the nature of running a business like this, we spent all of our time together. I didn’t realise how lucky I was to have this at the time, but I’m so grateful for it now as my family are incredibly close.

Even as young as six years old, I remember my brother picking me up to steal a chip from the fryer, or doodling on the wall while packing up orders together when I was a bit older and they came home from uni for the weekend to help with the business. The cooks who worked there were like family too and we would all eat dinner together at 5pm before the store opened.

Then there were the regular customers, whose names I still remember to this day. There was Mr Beckalo, who gave me the biggest donation when I was raising money for a charity penalty shoot-out at Stoke F.C. And there was Mr Woody, who I used to love climbing up onto the counter to see, so I could show him the latest picture I’d drawn.

There were others who helped me with my homework behind the counter, as I waited for my mum to finish work. And there were voices who I’d immediately recognise whenever they rang up; I knew them and their orders so well that if they added anything to their usual order, I’d be perplexed before they’d say, ‘Oh, my sister’s round tonight!’

It’s been 15 years since my parents retired and sold the business, yet they still exchange Christmas cards with those familiar faces to this day.

And they still bump into old customers who ask about them and ‘their little girl behind the till.’ It’s heart-warming to know that people remember me and my family, and we were such a big part of their lives.

However, nowadays, with the rise of food delivery apps, we all get to know the people at your local takeaways less and less. But lots of the families behind these establishments are very traditional – just like mine were – and may not have digitized being able to order food online or on an app.

This may go some way to explain why Chinese restaurants have been one of the biggest victims of restaurant closures in recent years. I still know family friends and relatives who work in takeaways and it’s heartbreaking to see them struggling and not quite understanding why. I know my parents would’ve been if they weren’t as fortunate to be able to retire early.

This is particularly sad when there’s been a rise in violence towards to East Asian community since the coronavirus pandemic began, which I experienced myself and makes me want to scream and cry.

In 2016 there was reportedly 4,000 Chinese, Thai and Japanese eateries in the UK, with Chinese remaining the UK’s favourite takeaway, the choice for one in four Brits.

But recent reports have seen a 300% rise in Asian hate crime, and I find it hard not to ask: Why doesn’t society love us as much as they love our food?

It’s only recently over the past few years as I’ve embraced my heritage more, and got to know more people with the same background as me, that I realise how proud I am of my upbringing, no matter how different it seemed at the time.

My parents moved over from Hong Kong and, after many failed attempts, their resilience led to them setting up a successful business that provided their three children with an education and start in life they wished they had. Neither of them got to go college and they made a living via cooking, because that was the thing they knew how to do, and I’m proud that they did this

So, this Lunar New Year, when you decide to order some Chinese food, I hope that you think about the people cooking your favourite dishes – because they are just a family like any other, trying to do the best they can.

Do you have a story you’d like to share? Get in touch by emailing jess.austin@metro.co.uk.

Share your views in the comments below.

MORE : What Chinese New Year animal are you and what does it mean?

MORE : China makes major edits to Fight Club ending so the police win

MORE : How is Chinese New Year celebrated in London?