This Morning viewers will surely be missing Phillip Schofield this week, as the presenter remains off air.

Schofe, 59, announced on Monday night that he will be absent for the rest of the week after presenting the first show of the week with Rochelle Humes.

It is not yet known whether we will see him on this Sunday’s episode of Dancing On Ice, alongside Holly Willoughby.

The much-loved TV star – who recently enjoyed a family evening in London – made the announcement on Instagram.

Why is Philip Schofield not presenting This Morning?

Phillip shared a picture of a Lateral Flow Test on Monday night, announcing that he has tested positive for Covid.

The TV host took to his Insta story on to share his frustration and upset.

Alongside a snap of his LFT, he exclaimed: ‘Well b******s!!’

Keeping fans updated on his symptoms, he added: ‘Currently just a slightly sore throat.’

Government rules mean the ITV icon will have to isolate for at least five full days, meaning that he will be away from his hosting duties on This Morning for the rest of the week.

He isn’t the only one missing, as best pal Holly has also taken time away from the This Morning sofa to film Superstar Survival, alongside Lee Mack – and is not due to return to the programme until later in February.

Rochelle has been holding the fort in her place, with Phillip announcing the line-up change last week.

After the show’s schedule was thrown up in the air when Phillip tested positive, Alison Hammond stepped in.

Alison – who usually hosts Friday’s This Morning alongside Dermot O’Leary – joined The Saturdays star Rochelle, delighting viewers.

They chatted to Phillip via video link during the show, whom we hope is keeping himself entertained at home.

However, it’s not yet known who will replace Phillip on Dancing On Ice this Sunday, which he also hosts with Holly.

It is also unclear who will be keeping his seat warm for the remainder of this week on the morning show.

Vernon Kaye, Josie Gibson and former X Factor host Dermot have all helmed the series in recent months, and could step in to take Phillip’s place.

Hopefully it won’t be long until we see Schofe back on our screens again.

This Morning airs weekdays at 10am on ITV.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Good Morning Britain viewers call out blunder as show gets Josh Hartnett’s name wrong

MORE : ‘Fantastic!’ Debbie McGee stuns Susanna Reid as she does the splits live on Good Morning Britain