What started out as an inconvenient geothermal hot water source has now become a luxury travel destination in its own right.

Back in 2014, a spot was discovered while digging for the 4.6 mile long Vaðlaheiðargöng tunnel between Akureyri and Húsavík in northern Iceland.

At first the geothermal area was an annoyance planners weren’t expecting to stumble across.

All that was required was a bit of rethinking, though, and the area got turned into a new spa featuring scenic views and swim-up bars.

Now called the Forest Lagoon (Skógarböð Geothermal Spa), which is due to open before Easter, visitors will soon be able to bask in all the glory at this site filled with natural beauty and luxury features for the perfect getaway.

The pandemic has led to delays in its opening, but Metro.co.uk has been told the creators are still ‘hopeful’ on a late spring launch.

There will be large leisure pools using the natural hot waters from a nearby mountain, and those pools are situated so they’re overlooking forests with birch and pine trees.

That’s not all, as there are views of the Eyja Fjord and city of Akureyri too.

Even better yet, this area of Iceland is known for being slightly less cold, generally speaking.

A representative of the destination tells us: ‘The unique thing about our location is not only the fact that the baths are in a forest but that the forest gives us an unusual shelter from the wind and weather.

‘This we think is something that is different from other baths.

‘A lot of times they have a problem with the cooling of the water as the wind often blows heavily, having a cooling effect on the water.

‘In addition it is quite unique to be able to take a bath in Iceland in a forest especially considering that only 3% of the island is covered with trees.’

Are you ready to add this to the top of your travel list?

One of the pools is around 5,700 sq ft, another is 570 sq ft with warmer water, then there’s a cold pool, two in-water bars, a sauna, and a quiet room.

While there, dine in the on-site bistro which will serve up local beer and wine.

It has a fireside dining area that’s surrounded by natural wood, helping to embody the soothing energy of forest bathing.

There are also charging stations for electric cars and bikes.

It’ll make for the ideal calming retreat, with only 200 people allowed in at one time.

Tickets are available already, with prices starting at 5,800 Icelandic króna (£33.25) for one guest.

A package for two guests along with two drinks is also available for 13,900 Icelandic króna (around £80).

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.

MORE : Covid tests to be scrapped for fully vaccinated travellers ‘before half-term’

MORE : Cabin crew share top tips for travelling with kids