As many fans remain confused as to why Sony bought Bungie, Sony has made it clear just how important live service games are to their future.

Normally, the one and only reason a video game company buys another is so they can make their games exclusive. That’s what happened with Microsoft and Bethesda, but so far it doesn’t seem to be happening with Microsoft and Activision Blizzard or Sony and Bungie.

In the case of Activision Blizzard, it may only be a temporary situation, as Microsoft tries to avoid being accused of creating a monopoly, but Sony has been adamant that no Bungie game, either now or in the future, is going to be exclusive.

Plans change, and execs lie, but Sony’s insistence that they primarily bought them to help with live service titles (aka games as a service) does seem to be true, with Sony revealing they have 10 such games in production.

Much of the success of the PlayStation 4 can be traced back to the high quality of Sony’s first party exclusives, the vast majority of which are single-player, narrative based games. Sony has previously indicated it wants to expand beyond that but in an earnings call last night they revealed that they plan to release 10 live service games by the end of their financial year in March 2026.

That’s 10 games in a little over four years, so Bungie wouldn’t be developing them all, but they will be helping out by using their expertise with Destiny to aid other studios.

Bungie is already known to have at least two new games in development: a comedy dungeon crawler and some kind of competitive multiplayer game. There’s a good chance both are live service titles but since neither has been officially announced it’s impossible to say for sure.

As for Sony’s financials, the company has revealed it’s now shipped 17.3 million PlayStation 5 consoles since November 2020.

That’s 3.9 million during the last three months, which is down from 4.5 million at the same time in 2020. That’s as a result of ongoing chip shortages, which are forcing Sony to lower its sales predictions for the next financial year.

That may sound bad, but the last quarter was still a record year for PlayStation, with the highest operating profit ever, and the second highest quarterly revenue in Sony’s entire history.

Email gamecentral@metro.co.uk, leave a comment below, and follow us on Twitter.

MORE : PlayStation warn to expect ‘many more acquisition moves’ after Bungie

MORE : Sony buys Bungie for £2.7 billion – Destiny 2 will not be exclusive

MORE : Destiny 2 interview: Bungie’s Witch Queen and Season of the Lost story plans

Follow Metro Gaming on Twitter and email us at gamecentral@metro.co.uk

For more stories like this, check our Gaming page.