And Just Like That producer Michael Patrick King has revealed that the late Willie Garson’s original storyline included ‘a midlife crisis’.

Garson, who returned as Stanford Blatch from the original Sex And The City cast, unexpectedly died from pancreatic cancer in September, aged 57.

He had only filmed three episodes of And Just Like That, however, King revealed Garson was meant to appear in all 10 episodes of the season.

The American writer and director, 67, shared in an interview with Variety that the original storyline involved Stanford having ‘a midlife crisis’.

Following Garson’s tragic death, the show’s storyline was forced to change to Stanford unexpectedly divorcing his husband Anthony (played by Mario Cantone), moving to Tokyo, and becoming a TikTok star’s manager.

Speaking to Variety, King said: ‘He was in all 10 episodes. Before I knew that Willie was sick and couldn’t complete it, Stanford was going to have a midlife crisis.

‘Stanford’s character always had a borderline career as a manager, and we were like going to explore the fact that it wasn’t a real career.

‘It was going to be Carrie and him, feeling the shifts.’

King added that Anthony and Stanford ‘were probably going to have split anyway’, although both characters would remain on the show.

He said: ‘Everybody would be relieved that they were divorced because it was not pleasant for anybody.

‘But there was a series of really fun, flirty, hilarious confidante scenes with Carrie that I loved.

‘That old, old, very specific chemistry that Carrie and Stanford have, which is based totally on the uniqueness of Willie and Sarah Jessica’s history.’

The on-screen friendship between Carrie and Stanford was also reflected behind the cameras, as Garson had confided to Sarah Jessica Parker about his cancer diagnosis before the rest of the cast were aware.

King also explained the reasoning behind how the show dealt with Garson’s death, stressing that it wasn’t an option to even ‘flirt’ with the idea of killing Stanford off or keep the character in the show from a distance like Samantha Jones.

‘I knew the audience would never invest in it, because they knew he was never coming back,’ he said.

And Just Like That airs on Sky Comedy and is available to stream on NOW.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.