Shoppers have been hit by the highest price rises in almost 10 years as the cost of living crisis takes hold.

The rate at which prices are rising in shops almost doubled over the past month, according the latest BRC-NielsenIQ shop price index. Annual shop price inflation jumped from 0.8% in December to 1.5% in January, the highest rate since 2012.

The surge was driven by the price of non-food items, including fashion and furniture, which rose to 0.9% in January compared to 0.2% in December.

Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium, said: ‘In particular, furniture and flooring saw exceptionally high demand leading to increased prices as the rising oil costs made shipping more expensive.

‘Food prices continue to rise, especially domestic produce which have been impacted by poor harvests, labour shortages, and rising global food prices.’

Ms Dickinson said this will directly affect the cost of living crisis, stating ‘it would be impossible to protect consumers from any future rises’ in costs, on top of higher household bills, such as gas and electricity.

However, fresh food inflation did slow slightly from 3.0% in December to 2.9% in January, but is still above the 12-month and six-month average growth rates.

Ms Dickinson said: ‘Many households will find it difficult to absorb the additional costs, as well as others on the horizon.

‘Retailers are working hard to cut costs, but it would be impossible to protect consumers from any future rises.

‘As commodity prices, energy prices and transportation costs continue to rise, it is inevitable that retail prices will continue to follow in the future.’

The figures, from the British Retail Consortium and research firm NielsenIQ, measured inflation across retailers in the UK over the first week of January, assessing price changes for 500 commonly bought items.

Mike Watkins, head of retailer and business insight at NielsenIQ, said: ‘The surge in energy and travel costs is now impacting disposable incomes and is likely to dent consumer’s willingness to spend.

‘NielsenIQ research this month shows nearly a half of all households are saying that their most important concern at the moment is the rising cost of living.’

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.