The Illinois legislature is considering HB4244 that would amend an existing law that would authorize healthcare providers to involuntarily enter residents of the state into an “immunization data registry”. Another bill, HB4640 would allow authorities to place people exposed to an infectious disease under public health department observation in a contained atmosphere with department watch guards. This bill would allow the state to “isolate or quarantine persons who are unable or unwilling to receive vaccines, medications, or other treatments.” These would basically be quarantine camps. HB4640 is scheduled to be heard in the Illinois House Human Services Committee on February 2.

Illinois HB4244, which would change participation in Illinois’ vaccine registry from voluntary to mandatory, is currently in the subcommittee, but it’s not gone by any means.

It’s scheduled to be heard again in the main Illinois House Human Services Committee on Wednesday, February 2 at 9:00 AM.

This liberty loathing, tyranny-loving bill is an invasion of medical privacy, a government overreach, and a tool for imposing a mandate for the covid vaccine as well as other vaccines.

My source for the new upcoming hearing is the synopsis page for HB4244 on the Illinois General Assembly’s website: Bill Status of HB4244 102nd General Assembly

The media has done a terrible job of covering the status of this bill after it was originally heard in committee last week.

Media coverage of HB4244 has ceased and people are proclaiming that this bill is dead on social media, yet the synopsis page for this bill clearly indicates that is not the case.

This bill would allow the state to “isolate or quarantine persons who are unable or unwilling to receive vaccines, medications, or other treatments.”

HB4640 is scheduled to be heard in the Illinois House Human Services Committee on Wednesday, February 2 at 9:00 AM.

If HB4640 were to become law, people exposed to an infectious disease could be placed under public health department observation in a contained atmosphere with department watch guards.

These would basically be quarantine camps.

The bill says in part:

“To prevent the spread of a dangerously contagious or infectious disease, the [Public Health] Department may, pursuant to the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section, isolate or quarantine persons whose refusal to undergo observation and monitoring results in uncertainty regarding whether he or she has been exposed to or is infected with a dangerously contagious or infectious disease or otherwise poses a danger to the public’s health.”