According to an interview by Dr. Jane Ruby, a nurse practitioner, her guest, Richard Hirschman is an embalmer who claims he pulled clots out of people who have died. He provided photographs of veins with clots. He said he started finding fibrous clots in bodies the middle of 2021, after Covid vaccines were introduced. He believes that the clots are from Covid vaccines, but is not able to prove his claim at this time. Hirschman said many people are dying of heart attacks and strokes. When Dr. Ruby asked Hirschman how often he’s finding these mystery clots, he said, “Out of about 35 people I’ve embalmed this month, I’d say 20-24 have had them.” He said the number of people with these blockages has recently increased from around 50% to almost 80%. Some of the bodies that he treated were confirmed to have been vaccinated. More evidence and investigation is needed using microscope analysis and chemical testing of the clots.

Rumble — In this worldwide exclusive, Dr. Jane Ruby meets with board-certified Embalmer and funeral Director, Richard Hirschman who reveals, for the first time ever, arteries and veins filled with unnatural blood clot combinations with strange fibrous materials that are completely filling the vascular system. Many of the victims reportedly died of heart attacks and strokes. Mr. Hirschman reports that he found resistance when he tried to embalm these jabbed patients, and then found these strange materials and pulled them from the large vessels of the bodies. He also reported that he has gone from seeing 50% of his embalmed cases with these types of blockages rise to almost 80%.”””

It appears that something new is making it more difficult for enbalmers to do their trade. Mr Hirshchman reports, for the first time in his 20 year career, that he has found rubbery fibrous material in the veins of his bodies that obstructed him from draining. https://rumble.com/vtcsgw-worldwide-exclusive-embalmers-find-veins-and-arteries-filled-with-never-bef.html

I watched this video and it is frightening. This undertaker could not withdraw blood from leg veins to inject formaldehyde to preserve the body. He explored and not only found clots, which can be natural, but at the end of the clot he found dense white stringy material he described as shaped like a worm, but I don’t want you to be misled that there could be a parasite. It looked like a twisted rope. You won’t believe this unless you see it. Worse, he found a few in arteries which should never have anything like it due to high flow. His colleagues are reporting similar findings to him since COVID vaccine advent. He has been super busy with his embalming business since the vaccine rollout. He never saw it before 2020 in 20 years of work. He doesn’t know if they all were vaccinated. The rate of this occurrence seems to be increasing in the past few months from 50% to 80% of the bodies.

You may not know it but a seasoned Navy pilot crashed his plane on an aircraft carrier and nearly died as he did not have the ability to properly eject timely.

“The pilot was recovered and taken to medical, where a physician determined he had suffered an acute case of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart muscle, a common and potentially deadly side effect of Covid-19 vaccinations. The USS Carl Vinson, a Nimitz-Class carrier, has a fully functional medical ward on its 2nd deck, complete with diagnostic equipment, including CRT and MRI scanners, found in contemporary hospitals.

The pilot, current condition unknown, got his booster shot aboard the USS Vinson 72-hours prior to the accident. He had no comorbidities, and passed a medical examination on 9/5/2021.” Source:https://realrawnews.com/2022/01/navy-pilot-crashes-plane-ejects-after-vax-reaction/

Rowen note: Army Lt. Col. Theresa Long, an aviation safety officer and Army flight surgeon stationed at Fort Rucker warned about this months ago.