Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Governor Gavin Newsom were caught posing for mask-less photos inside SoFi Stadium in Inglewood. San Francisco Mayor London Breed was also photographed without a mask. The photos sparked outrage from some critics who accused the officials of hypocrisy when the public is being told to follow state and county mask mandates. California children, including toddlers, are forced to wear masks in school. Jessica Millan Patterson, chair of the state Republican Party, said that Newsom’s “blatant and insulting disregard for his own COVID rules is a crystal clear sign that it’s time for his Draconian policies and state of emergency to go.” A number of state leaders called for health officials to reevaluate COVID-19 mask mandates, saying it should be up to the individual to decide when to wear one.

One day after Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Gov. Gavin Newsom were caught posing for mask-less photos inside SoFi Stadium, a number of state leaders called on Monday for health officials to reevaluate COVID-19 mask mandates, saying it should be up to the individual to decide when to wear one.

“Let’s do away with blanket COVID-19 masking policies — they don’t make a difference when they’re not consistently followed or enforced. We need to trust the public to make the best personal decisions for themselves based on their unique risks and circumstances,” Los Angeles County Supervisor Kathryn Barger said in a statement.

Barger pointed to Sunday’s NFC Championship game at SoFi Stadium, noting there was inconsistent adherence to the mask-wearing requirement.

Most notably, Laker legend Earvin “Magic” Johnson on Sunday night posted a series of photos on Twitter taken that day at SoFi Stadium with mask-less officials and celebrities, including Garcetti, Newsom, San Francisco Mayor London Breed and actor Rob Lowe. Some people in the photos with Johnson — including Garcetti and Lowe — can be seen holding a mask in the photos.

The photos sparked outrage from some critics who accused the officials of hypocrisy when the public is being told to follow state and county mask mandates. Los Angeles County requires all attendees to wear masks at outdoor mega-events, like football games at SoFi Stadium. The state’s mask mandate requires people to wear masks at indoor areas of outdoor mega-events.

State Sen. Melissa Melendez, whose district encompasses large portions of Riverside County, posted a number of tweets in response to the photos.

“Toddlers are being forced to wear masks all day long in school,” she wrote. “Maybe one day they’ll be governor or the mayor of LA and they won’t have (to) follow the rules they impose on others.”

In another, which included a picture of Johnson and Newsom, Melendez wrote, “First, they said no one should be wearing a mask. And then, everyone must wear a mask. Then they recommended wearing 2 masks. And now, I guess they’re optional if ‘the spirit moves you.'”