The Liberty Counsel reported that even though the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that it has approved a second COVID-19 “vaccine” known as Spikevax by Moderna, it is not available. Therefore, there are still currently no fully FDA-approved licensed shots available in the US. All COVID shots still remain under federal Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). That means that people have the option to accept or refuse the shots. The FDA played the same shell game last year when it announced it approved the BioNTech injection, Comirnaty and said that it was similar to Pfizer’s shot.

Even though the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced today that it has approved a second COVID-19 “vaccine” known as Spikevax by Moderna, there are still currently no fully FDA-approved licensed shots available. All COVID shots still remain under federal Emergency Use Authorization (EUA), meaning individuals have the “option to accept or refuse” the product.

In today’s letter to Moderna, the FDA states there is no Spikevax available.

Footnote 9 on page 3 states: “The licensed vaccine has the same formulation as the EUA-authorized vaccine and the products can be used interchangeably to provide the vaccination series without presenting any safety or effectiveness concerns. The products are legally distinct with certain differences that do not impact safety or effectiveness.”

Also, footnote 11 on page 7 states: “Although SPIKEVAX (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA) and Comirnaty (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA) are approved to prevent COVID-19 in certain individuals within the scope of the Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine authorization, there is not sufficient approved vaccine available for distribution to this population in its entirety at the time of reissuance of this EUA.”

Spikevax has the same formulation as the EUA Moderna COVID-19 shot and is administered as a primary series of two doses, one month apart.

The FDA played the same shell game last year when it announced it approved the BioNTech injection, Comirnaty.