ABC finally took disciplinary action against The View co-host Whoopi Goldberg (stage game) Tuesday night regarding her anti-Semitic comments about the Holocaust, in the form of a two-week suspension, effective immediately, according to a staff e-mail sent by ABC News president Kim Godwin and leaked to CNN media reporter Oliver Darcy.

Godwin began the letter by describing Whoopi’s comments as “misinformed, upsetting and hurtful.” “I have made the decision to suspend Whoopi from ‘The View’ for two weeks effective immediately,” she declared:

“Just last week I noted that the culture at ABC News is one that is driven, kind, inclusive, respectful, and transparent,” she wrote. “Whoopi’s comments do not align with those values.”

As NewsBusters reported, Whoopi was conveniently absolved of her transgression by Anti-Defamation League CEO and former Obama official Jonathan Greenblatt during Tuesday’s show. It was something Godwin seemed thankful for.

“It was important that Whoopi had a chance to address her comments on the show today where she made them and have an educational conversation with Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League (ADL),” she said.

Adding: “I appreciate their conversation and his acknowledgment of Whoopi’s efforts.” She then cited Greenblatt's tweet (below) where he calls Whoopi “a long-time ally of the Jewish community.”

Whoopi has shown through her actions over many years that she understands the horrors of the Holocaust and she started today’s show with the recognition. But words matter and we must be cognizant of the impact our words have.

And she ended the letter with “#oneabcnews.”

While ABC News has found that a two-week suspension would do, many in the public think a harsher punishment was in order with many tweeting "#cancelwhoopi" and "#firewhoopi."

But in her column for the U.K.-based Daily Mail, former View co-host Meghan McCain thought Whoopi wouldn’t be fired because, in ABC’s eyes, nothing she could do rises to that level:

I am not calling for Whoopi Goldberg to be fired, if only because I don't believe there is any universe where she could possibly do anything that could get her fired – she is the crown jewel of The View and a pop culture icon.