Since late January of 2012, the Washington Examiner’s Paul Bedard has once a week featured a “Mainstream Media Scream” selection in his “Washington Secrets” column. For each pick, usually posted online on Monday, I provide an explanation and recommend a “scream” rating (scale of one to five).

This post contains the “Liberal Media Screams” starting in January 2021.

> For all of 2020. For all of 2019. For all of 2018. (Re-named “Liberal Media Scream” as of June 11, 2018.) “Mainstream Media Screams” for:

> July-December 2017 posts; January through June 2017; July to December 2016; for January to June 2016; for July to December 2015; for January to June 2015. (2012-2014 are featured on MRC.org: For 2014; for June 17, 2013 through the end of 2013. And for January 31, 2012 through June 11, 2013.)

Check Bedard’s “Washington Secrets” blog for the latest choice and his other Washington insider posts. Each week, this page will be updated with Bedard’s latest example of the worst bias of the week.

■ New on January 31, 2022: Liberal Media Scream: CNN sees ‘permanent political warfare’ only on Right

See the posting on the Washington Examiner's site where you can watch the video and read Baker's assessment. A week later, Bedard's article will be posted here.

■ New on December 27: Liberal Media Scream: ABC thinks throwing Reagan’s ‘welfare queen’ at Manchin hurts

■ New on December 20: Liberal Media Scream: CNN’s Zakaria puzzled by Biden’s unpopularity

■ November 12 and 19: No Liberal Media Screams these weeks.

■ October 25: Liberal Media Scream: Meet the Press all in for McAuliffe

■ September 20 and 27: No Liberal Media Screams these weeks.

■ August 23: Liberal Media Scream: CNN regular says Biden’s doing a heck of a job

■ August 16: Liberal Media Scream: MSNBC ‘expert’ says GOP trying to make migrants ‘disappear’

■ July 19: Liberal Media Scream: Press should ‘move on’ from balance to liberal advocacy

■ June 28: Liberal Media Scream: Taxpayer-subsidized PBS is more DNC than the DNC

■ June 14: Liberal Media Scream: GQ journo says US may be worse than Russia on human rights

■ June 7: Liberal Media Scream: CNN’s Stelter gives the full Monty to Biden’s Jen Psaki

■ May 31: Liberal Media Scream: ‘Some things may be true, even if Donald Trump said them’

■ May 24: No Liberal Media Scream this week

■ May 17: Liberal Media Scream: Chuck Todd doesn’t like to be called liberal, ‘Don’t start that!’

The question in this week’s Liberal Mainstream Scream is this: Can NBC Meet the Press host Chuck Todd handle the truth?

An answer came in his interview with Texas Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw after Todd hit him for five questions on the removal of Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney as the No. 3 House leader after she refused to stop criticizing former President Donald Trump on his election fraud claims.

An exacerbated Crenshaw, after watching the liberal media turn the ouster into the next disaster for the GOP, blurted out, “You guys in the press love doing this” and “I get it, right? The press is largely liberal. They’re largely pro-Democrat.”

Todd wouldn’t hear it and tried to take back the conversation. “No, no, no, no, don’t start that ... There’s nothing lazier. There’s nothing lazier than that,” he said.

Todd tried repeatedly to get Crenshaw to denounce his Republican colleagues and Trump in a series of questions, starting with asking him to agree that “Liz Cheney was kicked out of leadership simply because she wouldn’t carry the water of former President Trump’s election lies.” He followed up with “Why should anybody believe a word you say if the Republican party itself doesn’t have credibility?” and “Do any of your critiques come across as credible if you can’t accept the fundamental fact that our democracy held a free and fair election?”

He then pressed Crenshaw to backtrack from ever asking courts to review some election processes, leading to this exchange on the Sunday program:

CHUCK TODD: This is an issue that many people have, is that you’re sitting here trying to, trying to say, ‘No, no, no, no, I just had a specific question,’ yet what you did gets weaponized by the former president. Did you see the rantings of him yesterday? And to the point where a Republican official in Maricopa County called the former president ‘unhinged.’ You know, I understand you guys want to put this behind you, but he is the leader of your party, and he doesn’t stop talking about this nonsense.

REP. DAN CRENSHAW: Chuck, the only — look, he’s one of many leaders in the party. He’s a former president. We’re five months into President Biden’s presidency, and there is a time to move on. And look, you guys in the press love doing this, and I, and I get it, right? The press is largely liberal. They’re largely pro-Democrat.

TODD: No, no, no, no, don’t start that. That is the laz — look, there’s nothing lazier. There’s nothing lazier than that.

CRENSHAW: It is. I mean, there’s a lot of, there’s a lot of reasons to keep this alive.

TODD: I understand — what you’re trying to appease —

CRENSHAW: And there’s a lot of people in my party that take the bait. I’m not going to take the bait here —

TODD: I’m not trying to bait you. I’m trying to — I’m trying to figure out —

CRENSHAW: What is the outcome you’re looking for?

TODD: Why do you, why do you, why do we sit here and have a political party that is basically rallying around this bizarre lie and mythology that the former president is doing, and you guys just want to say, ‘Hey, pay no attention to this,’ that, that somehow we in the press are bringing that up. It’s the former president.

CRENSHAW: Well, I already, I already debunked the notion, I already debunked the notion that there's, that there’s no space in the party for that. Remember, Liz won that first election —

CHUCK TODD: She’s not there now.

CRENSHAW: She won that first leadership vote, OK? And I told you why. I helped you understand why. And what I’m trying to help you understand is these are not the phone calls I get about this, about who is the leader of the party, what’s happening with Trump? My Republican supporters do not ask me about Trump, they don’t ask me about what he said, they’re not riled up about it. You know what they’re asking about? What are we doing about over a quarter million illegal crossings on our border in the last two months? That’s what they’re asking about. How is that sustainable? What about my inflation? What about my savings that are now less valuable because of rising inflation because we’re spending money that we don’t have.

Media Research Center Vice President Brent Baker explains our weekly pick: “There’s nothing lazier than a liberal journalist, in the midst of pursuing a liberal narrative, denying the undeniable reality that the press and journalists are largely liberal. If Todd doesn’t want his guest to call out his biased agenda, then he shouldn’t keep asking a variation of the same question over and over because the guest won’t accede to his left-wing talking points.”

Rating: FOUR out of FIVE screams.

■ New on May 10: Liberal Media Scream: Six more years of ‘Stacey Abrams for president’

■ April 26: Liberal Media Scream: DeSantis must be top dog the way media bark at him

■ March 15: Liberal Media Scream: Meet the Press blames Trump for Cuomo refusing to quit

■ February 15: Liberal Media Scream: CNN’s Don Lemon goes there and blames ‘horrible Reagan’

■ February 1: Liberal Media Scream: New high in CNN bias, blames GOP for ‘divided America’

■ January 18, 2021: Liberal Media Scream: Call to silence conservatives and kick OANN and Newsmax off air

■ January 4, 2021: Liberal Media Scream: Smug Chuck Todd to senator, ‘I’ve Had Enough of Hearing This!’

> For all of 2019.

> For all of 2018.