NewsBusters was the first to report Monday that The View co-host Whoopi Goldberg (a stage name) went on an anti-Semitic screed that morning falsely claiming the Holocaust “isn't about race” but rather just “two white groups” that “fight amongst yourselves.” So, later that evening, our friend and Daily Wire founder Ben Shapiro appeared on Fox News Channel’s Jesse Watters Primetime to unpack and call out Whoopi and the radical left-wing ideology that allow for her type of anti-Semitism.

“So, to understand what Whoopi Goldberg is doing you have to understand the basic left-wing intersectional theory of life; is that all of society is structures of power,” he explained to Watters. “That there are victimized groups and there are victimizing groups.”

Shapiro then noted that the left’s breakdown of life into those groups was itself a form of bigotry. “And the problem is that, in American society and west more generally Jews are disproportionately successful. According to the left, disproportionately successful groups are beneficiaries of the white supremacist system and are, in fact, either white or white adjacent,” he said.

Tearing up Whoopi’s “insane, insane contention” that since the Nazis and Jews were “two groups of white people” that somehow the Holocaust wasn’t based on race, Shapiro took the thought to it’s ultimate conclusion that “ties into this idea that Jews are white people and, therefore, Jews aren't really the victims of the Holocaust, it's really all of humanity that was the victim of the Holocaust.”

He then proceeded to all out the left and their pals in the liberal media for their manipulation of coverage of anti-Semitic attacks based on the attacker’s race:

And this is why you see from the left when it comes to anti-Semitism they are utterly unwilling on any level to condemn anti-Semitism unless it's an actual white supremacist who’s doing it. Whether it’s Black Hebrew Israelites who are attempting to murder Jews in New Jersey, or if it’s Jews in Williamsburg who are being beat up by black guys on the streets in New Jersey, or if it’s the latest anti-Semitic attack in Texas which was performed by a radical Muslim. All that disappears from the news immediately, it is not a major anti-Semitic problem.

“It's only anti-Semitism if they can characterize it as a white-on-white attack essentially,” he expertly deduced.

Describing Whoopi as “unbelievably stupid” and what she was saying as “not just insipid, it's insidious” and “insane on every level,” he pointed to the historical fact that Adolf Hitler viewed the Jews as a race and based his horrific polices on it:

The segment closed with Watters jokingly telling Shapiro to pack his bags because they got him booked on the next episode of The View to “straighten those ladies out.”

The transcript is below, click "expand" to read:

JESSE WATTERS: Something not a good thing, The View. We watched The View so you don't have to watch it at home. And some things were said today on The View that I needed to get Ben Shapiro's take on. They talked about the Holocaust, which is probably not a good topic for The View to cover. But, Whoopi said some things about race and the Holocaust, talk about misinformation, watch. WHOOPI GOLDBERG: Let's be truthful about it because the Holocaust isn't about race. GOLDBERG: No. It's not about race. It's about man's inhumanity to man. That's what it is about. Let's talk about what it is. It's about how people treat each other. WATTERS: What's going on there, Ben. BEN SHAPIRO: Okay. So, to understand what Whoopi Goldberg is doing you have to understand the basic left-wing intersectional theory of life; is that all of society is structures of power. That there are victimized groups and there are victimizing groups. And the problem is that, in American society and west more generally Jews are disproportionately successful. According to the left, disproportionately successful groups are beneficiaries of the white supremacist system and are, in fact, either white or white adjacent. So, Whoopi Goldberg actually said that, during the Holocaust, it was two groups of white people who were fighting each other, meaning the Nazis and the Jews which is an insane, insane contention. That again, ties into this idea that Jews are white people and, therefore, Jews aren't really the victims of the Holocaust, it's really all of humanity that was the victim of the Holocaust. Jews are just white people in general. And this is why you see from the left when it comes to anti-Semitism they are utterly unwilling on any level to condemn anti-Semitism unless it's an actual white supremacist who’s doing it. Whether it’s Black Hebrew Israelites who are attempting to murder Jews in New Jersey, or if it’s Jews in Williamsburg who are being beat up by black guys on the streets in New Jersey, or if it’s the latest anti-Semitic attack in Texas which was performed by a radical Muslim. All that disappears from the news immediately, it is not a major anti-Semitic problem. It's only anti-Semitism if they can characterize it as a white-on-white attack essentially. There’s a deeper philosophy here which is while Whoopi Goldberg doing that. It’s not just that she’s stupid. Although, she is unbelievably stupid. This is not just insidious -- It's not just insipid, it's insidious. I mean, it’s insane on every level. Obviously, historically speaking, Hitler thought of Jews as a race. He made this obvious, he made this clear. The Nuremberg Laws are based on the idea that Jews are a race. But none of that matters to Whoopi Goldberg this ties into a broader ugly theory. WATTERS: Well Ben, my producers have made some phone calls, we have booked you on The View tomorrow. So, pack your bags and just straighten those ladies out, please, thank you. SHAPIRO: [Laughter] Oh man, if they booked me on The View the next day there would be no View the next day. That would be the end of the show, so. WATERS: You know what? We would all say thank you, Ben. We got to go.