Bill Maher on Friday shamed the hack late night hosts on the networks, showing that it IS possible to mock the left and still be a comedian. Unlike Stephen Colbert or Kimmy Kimmel, HBO's Maher delivered brutal commentary towards the “asses” and “Karens” running the Democratic Party, calling out the “small contingent who've gone mental, and a large contingent who refuse to call them out for it.”

Last week, the liberal ladies of The View raged at Maher, asking “How dare” he make anti-mask jokes. Perhaps responding, Maher eviscerated the left: “It's not my fault that the party of FDR and JFK is turning into the party of LOL and WTF. Members of Congress tweeting things like ‘cancel rent,’ ‘cancel mortgage,’ and no more policing or incarceration, declaring that capitalism is slavery.”

Repeating the long line of extreme things coming out of the Democratic Party, he continued: “Canceling Lincoln and Dr. Seuss, teaching children their oppressors and math is racist, making Mr. Potato head gender neutral, and now a emoji for pregnant men. Real, I'm not making it up.”

Maher specifically addressed his new detractors on the left:

Let's get this straight, it's not me who's changed, it's the left, who is now made up of a small contingent who've gone mental, and a large contingent who refuse to call them out for it. But I will. That's why I'm a hero at Fox these days. Which shows just how much liberals have their head up their ass, because if they really thought about it, they would have made me a hero on their media. But that can't happen in this ridiculous new era of mind-numbing partisanship, where if I keep it real about the nonsense in the Democratic Party, it makes me an instant hero to Republicans.

Lecturing his Democratic Party, Maher concluded, “Democrats no longer possess the common sense to understand that not every problem in the world can be fixed with a regulation.”

Liberals like View host Whoopi Goldberg haven’t reacted well to all this. Last week, she snarled, “How dare you be so flippant, man.”

Maher, unlike partisan hack Seth Meyers is willing to call out the left in the name of comedy. A NewsBusters study in December found that the NBC host is obsessed with attacking... Joe Manchin. Not Joe Biden. He is clearly not in the mold of Maher who said it best on Friday night: “The oath of office I took was to comedy, and if you do goofy shit, wherever you are on the spectrum, I'm going to make fun of you because that's where the gold is.”

Conservatives may not have believed they would be saying this, but it’s true: Be like Bill Maher. Not Seth Meyers, Jimmy Kimmel or Stephen Colbert.

A transcript of the monologue is below. Click “expand” to read more.

BILL MAHER: Let's get this straight, it's not me who's changed, it's the left, who is now made up of a small contingent who've gone mental, and a large contingent who refuse to call them out for it. But I will. That's why I'm a hero at Fox these days. Which shows just how much liberals have their head up their ass, because if they really thought about it, they would have made me a hero on their media. But that can't happen in this ridiculous new era of mind-numbing partisanship, where if I keep it real about the nonsense in the Democratic Party, it makes me an instant hero to Republicans. The same thing happened in reverse to Darth Vader's daughter, Liz Cheney, who is now a hero to liberals simply because she recognizes Biden did not steal the last election. What a sad commentary on our politics, where simply acknowledging reality is now seen as a profile in courage. People sometimes say to me, "You didn't used to make fun of the left as much." Yeah, because they didn't give me so much to work with. The oath of office I took was to comedy, and if you do goofy shit, wherever you are on the spectrum, I'm going to make fun of you because that's where the gold is, and the fact that they are laughing at it should tell you something: It rings true. When normal people read that San Francisco has basically legalized shoplifting, they think Democrats have gone nuts. They think, “You know, that Ted Cruz guy seems like a real stiff stiff. But at least he believes in the concept of shopping with money.” It's not my fault that the party of FDR and JFK is turning into the party of LOL and WTF. Members of Congress tweeting things like “cancel rent,” “cancel mortgage,” and no more policing or incarceration, declaring that capitalism is slavery, canceling Lincoln and Dr. Seuss, teaching children their oppressors and math is racist, making Mr. Potato head gender neutral, and now a emoji for pregnant men. Real, I'm not making it up. California just passed a law requiring large retailers to have a non-gendered toy section. A non-gendered toy section? Isn't Ken enough? We need a law for that? Do you have to inject yourselves into everything, from where you can throw a Frisbee, to who can braid hair? This is why so many people, by the way, were triggered by COVID policies, they were already sick of rules. Regulation should be a good issue for Democrats, it's certainly one they're associated with. And I think the average voter would agree that banks and chemical plants and drug companies need watching. Telling a company "You can't dump the waste from your hog farm straight into the water supply," we're mostly all for that. But Democrats have become a parody of themselves, just making rules to make rules, because it makes you feel like you're a better person. Making sure that everything bad "Never happens again," which you can never fully do, it just makes everyone else's life a drag. The Biden infrastructure bill has a provision that requires all new cars to install an alert system that goes off when you leave a baby in the backseat, which is something done only by crack heads and people who sadly, yes, do it on purpose. And after everyone of us winds up bearing the cost for cars to install this alarm, you know who's going to ignore it? Crackheads and people who do it on purpose. A sensor light is not going to fix this problem, and Democrats no longer possess the common sense to understand that not every problem in the world can be fixed with a regulation. But don't tell that to the advocacy groups who also want every future car in America to only start when the driver blows into a Breathalyzer. Oh, great, my other car is a Karen. Well, you know, it's also not safe to drive when you're crying. Should we make a car that follows your texts and stops the engine when you're dumped? Racism is bad, how about a car that won't start until you play a message about tolerance from George Takei? Regular viewers of this program may recall my long battle to get solar power hooked up at my house. It involved this shed, which had to be built to house this solar battery. Yes, that battery needed a house to live in. And not just any house, one that had to follow the specifications of this chart. That's a real chart of the steps we had to go through to get this thing turned on. Democrats have to stop thinking that with the voters dream about is to be hassled. If you buy a shed at Costco, it comes with this warning. “Warning: This product can expose you to would dust.” It would dust, no kidding. “Which is known to the state of California to cause cancer.” That's right, California thinks you're going to snort your shed. I don't want to blow Pinocchio. I just want to put the lawnmower away. Okay, that's our show.