Appearing on Fox Business Network’s Varney & Co. Monday morning, Media Research Center President Brent Bozell slammed President Biden’s Supreme Court nominating process being dictated by “the power of the radical, militant, and in some cases Marxist left.” On another topic, he warned that “the woke, radical left wants to make you rethink your belief system.”

Anchor Stuart Varney noted: “...we’ve got a new poll, it shows 76% of people want Biden to consider all possible nominees to replace Supreme Court Justice Breyer, not just black females.” He wondered: “Are people – do you think that maybe America is getting a little tired of identity politics?”

Bozell agreed with that assessment and pointed out:

Yeah, especially when they see the result of it. And the result, two words, Kamala Harris. He said the same thing, that he would have a black female vice president. So, you know, the pie of possibilities was about three women and he got the least offensive of the three and she’s a disaster by any measurement. She’s a laughingstock. And now he’s doing it again. It goes to show you the power of the radical, militant, and in some cases Marxist left. That they are saying to him, “You must do that, even though the overwhelming percentage of American people don’t want it. Even though you’ve already shown, with the Vice President, that it’s a terrible policy, you will do this Mr. President.” And his answer is “Yes, sir.”

Varney concurred: “It just looks so bad for the nominee, whomsoever the lady is, be considered just, you know, just for her identity.” Bozell replied: “Crazy idea but what you do is you choose the most qualified.”

Turning to the absurd notion of Apple creating a “pregnant man” emoji for its devices, Bozell hammered the Big Tech company’s desperate attempt to kowtow to the radical left:

Well, first let’s establish that Apple can do anything that it wants. Secondly, I’m so glad it’s Apple doing it because you get to see what Apple really is. Look, the woke, radical left wants to make you rethink your belief system. Whether it’s the Civil War, whether it is climate, whatever it might be. They cannot make you rethink it. We are not seahorses, we males. And the more Apple tries to push that, the more stupid they look.

Here is a full transcript of the January 31 segment:

STUART VARNEY: Former President Trump says he could pardon the January 6 rioters if he wins another term in the White House. Watch this from his rally in Texas, roll it. DONALD TRUMP: If I run and if I win we will treat those people from January 6th fairly. We will treat them fairly. And if it requires pardons, we will give them pardons because they are being treated so unfairly.

 

 VARNEY: I wanted to ask our media watcher Brent Bozell about this. Brent, is this the right strategy for Mr. Trump and the Republicans? Because it seems that they’re looking back, rehashing the past, as opposed to looking forward to and telling us how great things are going to be. Do you know what I mean? BRENT BOZELL: Yeah, and I agree with you. And if I were advising the president I would be telling him, look forward to the next election, it’s over. The last election is over, you gain nothing by talking about it. And if I succeeded in convincing him of that, I would be the first person who’s ever succeeded in convincing Donald Trump of anything. BOZELL: He does what he wants to do. Now, talking about the January 6 rioters, he’s gotta be very careful here. If he is talking about the 99.9% who came without an intention of committing harm, he’s absolutely correct to say that. If he doesn’t, than he is going to be tied to the one tenth of one percent of people who came to Washington attempting to create damage and harm and that sort of thing. So he’s gotta be careful to talk about the two things. But I do think it’s very interesting that he would bring that up, he’s gonna bring that up because he really can tie it around the necks of the left, the fact that they won’t prosecute or condemn anybody with the continued violence against people. VARNEY: True. Now, different issue, we’ve got a new poll, it shows 76% of people want Biden to consider all possible nominees to replace Supreme Court Justice Breyer, not just black females. Are people – do you think that maybe America is getting a little tired of identity politics? BOZELL: Yeah, especially when they see the result of it. And the result, two words, Kamala Harris. He said the same thing, that he would have a black female vice president. So, you know, the pie of possibilities was about three women and he got the least offensive of the three and she’s a disaster by any measurement. She’s a laughingstock. And now he’s doing it again. It goes to show you the power of the radical, militant, and in some cases Marxist left. That they are saying to him, “You must do that, even though the overwhelming percentage of American people don’t want it. Even though you’ve already shown, with the Vice President, that it’s a terrible policy, you will do this Mr. President.” And his answer is “Yes, sir.” VARNEY: It just looks so bad for the nominee, whomsoever the lady is, be considered just,, you know, just for her identity. BOZELL: Crazy idea, Stuart. Crazy idea but what you do is you choose the most qualified. STUART: Exactly, exactly. Now, here’s one more for you, Brent. I was saving this one just for you. Apple just released the pregnant man and pregnant person emoji. The icon, we are told, will come in five different skin tones, so what? What do you make of all of this, Brent? BOZELL: Well, first let’s establish that Apple can do anything that it wants. Secondly, I’m so glad it’s Apple doing it because you get to see what Apple really is. Look, the woke, radical left wants to make you rethink your belief system. Whether it’s the Civil War, whether it is climate, whatever it might be. They cannot make you rethink it. We are not seahorses, we males. And the more Apple tries to push that, the more stupid they look. And I want them to do it, Stuart. I want them to do this, I want the world to see pregnant men. VARNEY: Will you use that icon, when available? All the time? BOZELL: If I want to make fun of Apple, yes. If I want to make fun of Apple, yes. VARNEY: Okay, I’m gonna leave it right there, Brent, whilst we both still have a job. Okay, Brent Bozell everyone. He’s a good man and we’ll see you again soon, thanks very much, indeed.