The Will (aka “Lia”) Thomas controversy with Penn University women’s swimming is on a collision course with postseason events and potential NCAA rules changes regarding transgender athletes. An anonymous member of that team told Fox News she overheard Penn administrations speaking of a potential lawsuit if Thomas is prevented from NCAA national competition in March.

The anonymous swimmer, who fears LGBT retaliation if she reveals her name, told Fox New, “I have a feeling that if USA Swimming changes their rules, they will be filing a lawsuit for Lia (see Thomas photos as male, upper right, and female, upper left) to swim, but they wouldn’t do that for us. That’s just really upsetting.”

USA Swimming guidelines require a year of testosterone suppression for males to compete on women’s teams. This will require Thomas’s level to be tested in March in order to remain eligible for national competition in Atlanta.

NCAA rules require transgender athletes to meet sport-specific testosterone levels beginning four weeks before, in this case, the national swimming competition.

The anonymous teammate and opponent of males competing on female teams (and obliterating the competition) is hopeful that common sense will prevail. And new NCAA rules won’t just measure a man’s suppressed testosterone levels. She said “as swimmers, we kind of realize that it’s not just testosterone levels. It’s testosterone levels from the last 20 years and how that affected, you know, the fact that [Thomas] went through male puberty and the way that built her heart and lungs and her hands and the way she circulates blood and the lactic acid and all that stuff.”

Male athletes have “monumental advantages,” such as muscle mass, the anonymous swimmer continued. A year of hormone suppression cannot overcome the advantages they have over females. “But why do we have to be gracious losers? … Who are you to tell me that I shouldn’t want to win because I do want to win? I’m swimming. I’m dedicating more than 20 hours a week to the sport.

“... You can’t just tell me I should be happy with second place. I’m not. And these people in Penn’s administrative department who just think that women should just roll over — it’s disturbing, and it’s reminiscent of the 1970s when they were fighting for Title IX and stuff like that. They don’t actually care about women at all.”

The Ivy League women’s swimming championships are scheduled for Feb. 16-18, and female swimmers stand to get cheated out of titles in the events that Thomas competes in.

While anonymous Penn swimmers feed inside information to the media, a group of left-wing law groups published a public letter last week in The Daily Pennsylvanian in support of Thomas and the hysteria surrounding transgender athletes. Thomas is winning races left and right this year merely because of his "hard work,” they say, adding:

"Thomas, who has been swimming since she was five years old, had an incredible season following a year-long break; she won events, broke records, and earned bids to the NCAA championships. Thomas did not succeed because she is transgender; she succeeded because of the hard work she has put in throughout her long swimming career, and because she is finally able to authentically be herself and race in a sport that she loves.

 

 "Lia Thomas belongs on the Penn women’s swim team, Lia Thomas belongs in sports, and all trans athletes belong in sports."

No, the guy who’s very proud of his man parts and has made no effort to remove them, does not belong on the women’s team. Will Thomas belongs on the Penn men’s team, where he started his collegiate swimming career in 2019.