In an emotional message during her husband’s funeral at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on Friday, Dominique Luzuriaga, the widow of slain 22-year-old NYPD Detective Jason Rivera, blasted Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg for his weak-on-crime policies getting her husband killed. But despite how powerful a moment it was, ABC’s World News Tonight completely omitted her scathing rebuke of the radical-leftist DA who lets criminals walk the streets even with weapons charges.

“The pictures today, a mile-long sea of blue filling the streets for 22-year-old Jason Rivera. And the emotional moment when we heard from the rookie officer's young wife,” announced ABC anchor David Muir.

In the report submitted by Phil Lipof, it was clear they only wanted to use her emotion to sensationalize their report:

LUZURIAGA: I would say good morning to you all, but in fact, it's the worst morning ever. LIPOF: Officer Jason Rivera's young widow, Dominique, posting photos of the couple, saying, “this is the heaviest my heart has been.” They met in elementary school. Married just four months. Today, described the horror of being called to the hospital. LUZURIAGA: I said to you, “wake up, baby, I'm here.” The little bit of hope that I had that you would come back to life just to say goodbye or say I love you one more time had left. I was lost. I'm still lost.

The only other soundbite they used of Luzuriaga was of her telling her husband, “And although you won't be here anymore, I want you to live through me.”

In the comments ABC tried to obfuscate from their viewers, she declared: “I know you are tired of these laws, especially the ones from the new DA. I hope he's watching you speak through me right now.”

With CBS Evening News preempted for golf, it was up to NBC Nightly News and correspondent Rehema Ellis to share Luzuriaga’s criticisms. “And she's angry with the new Manhattan district attorney, among the mourners whose memo called for the relaxed prosecution of some gun possession cases,” she reported. “He’s since clarified his stance.”

In a follow-up soundbite, Ellis played Luzuriaga saying: “I hope he's watching you speak through me right now. I'm sure all of our blue family is tired, too. But I promise, we promise that your death won't be in vain.”

ABC’s pathetic omission of a grieving widow’s frustration at a weak-on-crime DA was made possible because of lucrative sponsorships from Salonpas and Prevagen. Their contact information is linked.

The transcript is below, click "expand" to read:

DAVID MUIR: The pictures today, a mile-long sea of blue filling the streets for 22-year-old Jason Rivera. And the emotional moment when we heard from the rookie officer's young wife. Here’s ABC’s Phil Lipof. PHIL LIPOF: Shoulder to shoulder they packed St. Patrick's Cathedral to pay respects to 22-year-old NYPD Officer Jason Rivera. DOMINIQUE LUZURIAGA: I would say good morning to you all, but in fact, it's the worst morning ever. LIPOF: Officer Jason Rivera's young widow, Dominique, posting photos of the couple, saying, “this is the heaviest my heart has been.” They met in elementary school. Married just four months. Today, described the horror of being called to the hospital. LUZURIAGA: I said to you, “wake up, baby, I'm here.” The little bit of hope that I had that you would come back to life just to say goodbye or say I love you one more time had left. I was lost. I'm still lost. LIPOF: Outside, snow falling as a sea of blue lined 5th Avenue. LUZURIAGA: And although you won't be here anymore, I want you to live through me.