There’s still junk in Davy Jones’s locker, and the gals don’t wanna see it.

Whether you believe he is a she (he isn’t), or whether he/she should compete on the University of Penn women’s swim team (he shouldn’t), all Americans can come together and agree on a single, simple truth: Lia Thomas is a selfish jerk.

Just ask Thomson’s teammates. Some of them told the Daily Mail that Thomas sometimes doesn’t cover her as yet unmutilated male genitalia. “While Lia covers herself with a towel sometimes, there’s a decent amount of nudity,” says the Mail. Swimmers say they “have had a glimpse at her private parts.” Uh, ew.

“‘It's definitely awkward because Lia still has male body parts and is still attracted to women,’ one swimmer on the team told DailyMail.com in an exclusive interview.” Apparently, says the Mail, “Lia has told her teammates that she dates women.”

So he is becoming a she so she can …? Whatever. The point is that the nudity is just another indication that Thomas doesn’t seem to give a water rat’s patootie about the actual women trying to compete in actual women’s swimming. The women who are his ostensible teammates. (There's no I in TEAM, but there sure is in LIA.)

That sucks. Unfortunately, this is the world that Penn and other woke elite institutions have been working hard to create: identity, victimhood and radical individualism based on anything except character and morality. Once you start down that road, ideas about common good take a backseat to placating the aggrieved:

It just seems like the women who built this program and the people who were here before Lia don't matter. And it's frustrating because Lia doesn't really seem to be bothered by all the attention, not at all. Actually she seems like she enjoys it. It's affected all of us way more than it's affected her.

Again, one sympathizes with Thomas’s teammates, but if ever there were a textbook case of conservatives (or just any rational people) deserving a big old “Itoldyaso,” this is it. Can the ladies fight back? They can, but with small hope of success and at tremendous cost to themselves:

“‘We've all tried to think of anything we could do, but I just don't know what we could do that wouldn't basically have us not be swimming,’ she said. ‘We already lost a year due to covid and people don't want to put their own swim careers on hold.’”

In an era when people are using the word “performative” unironically, it’s impossible to know how sincerely Thomas believes his own shtick. But would anyone really be surprised if his college career ends and Thomas never completes the transition to Lia? Far-fetched? Not in the Age of Trans.