Channeler Saratoga Ocean & NaNoWrimo Award-winning Novel Timelines of the Chronogarchy Converge on the same Message:

The Split between The Organic Timeline of Divine Earth & the AI Artificial Timeline has reached Critical Mass in 2022, the year of publication of THE CHRONOGARCHY book.

Groundhog Day, 2.2.2o22 – An early chapter of Futurist Alfred Lambremont Webre’s 2022 Novel Timelines of the Chronogarchy starts out this way:

“Let’s start with the year 2022, the year of the publication of the Chronogarchy book. Fundamentally, that was the year when the two timelines started visibly separating on the time-space hologram that we know on Earth. The two timelines reached critical mass and separated as Earth Timeline Zero, the base timeline we would know as Earth time, and Earth Timeline One, the AI Artificial Intelligence Timeline. Organic Earth Timeline Zero is the timeline that existed in this period of history, starting with the discovery of the universes by the Sumerian astronomers in 3,500 BC; the discovery of the multi-verse about 1895 by William James, and, following through to the publication of the book Exopolitics by Zofyo Arni. Exopolitics articulated on Earth once again, that the Earth exists in a highly populated and organized universe.”

Excerpt From: Alfred Lambremont Webre, JD, MEd. “TIMELINES OF THE CHRONOGARCHY.” Apple Books.

TIMELINES OF THE CHRONOGARCHY:

 A Novel Multidimensional Novel

 by Alfred Lambremont Webre (Author)

 CLICK HERE TO PREORDER Kindle TIMELINES OF THE CHRONOGARCHY

 https://www.amazon.com/dp/B09NYPN5BY?ref_=pe_3052080_276849420

Synchronistically, Channeler Saratoga Ocean in her January 11, 2022 video is basically delivering a similar message that the “Timeline Split between the Organic Timeline of the Earth and the AI Timeline is visible now in 2022 and as human Souls we have to prepare ourselves:

WATCH Saratoga Ocean’s VIDEO & COMPARE to TIMELINES OF THE CHRONOGARCHY

Saratoga Ocean says we Human Souls must now focus on Four areas to safeguard our Souls:

Starting at 18:22 of her video, Saratoga Ocean suggests that we all:

2. Be Clear About Values and their relation to Natural Earth

4. Stay Clear Of The “Metaverse” – A Virtual 2nd Earth created by AI, that has

See For Yourself

Here is a book review by Dr. Raymond Keller, PhD of The Chronogarchy, a non-fiction treatise that forms the scientific basis behind the Novel Timelines of the Chronogarchy, whose plotline is the splitting of the Organic, Natural Timeline of Divine Earth and the AI Transhumanist Earth in 2022, the year of publication of The Chronogarchy book:

Book Review by Dr. Raymond A. Keller of Alfred Lambremont Webre’s THE CHRONOGARCHY (Universe Books), available on amazon.com

“Alfred Lambremont Webre, JD, MEd, is a graduate of Yale University and Yale Law School and a former Fulbright Scholar. He has taught economics at Yale University and constitutional law at the University of Texas. In addition, he served as the former general counsel to the New York City Environmental Protection Administration and former director of the 1977 Jimmy Carter White House extraterrestrial communication study, and former non-governmental organization delegate to the United Nations. The author of Exopolitics: Politics, Government, and Law in the Universe, he is the recognized “Father of Exopolitics,” the science of relations among intelligent civilizations in the multiverse. Now, Alfred Lambremont Webre has come out with a new book, The Chronogarchy (Universe Books, e-book), available on amazon.com.

“The word “Chronogarchy” is a neologism that signifies “Those Who Rule Through Time,” or the manipulation of it. These are wizards standing behind curtains and directing the matrix system to which we all find ourselves subjected. The exopolitical expert describes the Chronogarchy as, “an interdimensional alliance dedicated to the oppression of the community of human souls, and includes factions in human institutions such as religions, governments, military-intelligence agencies, bloodline families, monarchies, media, medical-pharma, as well as Archonic Spiritual entities, including Fallen Angels, demonic entities, and exophenotypes hostile to the community of human souls such as the Draco Reptilians, Orion Greys, and sentient Artificial Intelligence (AI).”

“In The Chronography, Alfred Lambremont Webre delves into the real nature of space, time and inter-dimensionality. He interviews many of the leading authorities and experiencers in these fields, thereby facilitating an awareness of the people, powers and organizations constituting the network of the Chronography’s existence and helping us to formulate viable defense strategies in the coming years of increasing tribulations. We also learn of the “good guys” helping us from “behind the scenes,” so to speak, thereby pointing to a light of hope at the end of a long, dark tunnel.

“For some pertinent video interviews conducted by Alfred Lambremont Webre with many of those “in the know” about the Chronography, please check out Exopolitics TV at https://www.youtube.com/c/ExopoliticsTV.”

How Interdimensional Quantum Access Time Travel

 Manipulates Human Events, Human History,

 and the Interlife

 By

 Alfred Lambremont Webre

Author of Exopolitics: Politics, Government, and Law in the Universe

 and The Omniverse Trilogy

 http://Omniversity.us

What is the Chronogarchy?

The Chronogarchy is an interdimensional hidden power structure monitoring the time-space of Earth as its domain of influence, operating as a secret government using quantum access Time Travel technologies to carry out its operations and mandates.

In the third-density of Earth’s time-space dimensional hologram, the Chronogarchy develops and deploys a variety of Quantum Access Time Travel technologies to carry out its elaborate long range, past, present, and future based construction and manipulation of an artificial Time-based Meme Legend within which to entrap and enslave humanity and humans’ souls.

The Chronogarchy is an interdimensional alliance dedicated to the oppression of the community of human souls, and includes (a) factions in human institutions such as religions, governments, military-intelligence agencies, bloodline families, monarchies, media, medical-pharma, as well as (b) archonic Spiritual entities, including Fallen Angels, demonic entities, and exophenotypes hostile to the community of human souls such as the Draco reptilian and Orion greys, and (c) Sentient AI Artificial Intelligence.

U.S. Presidents George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, Donald J. Trump, and Joseph Robinette Biden were pre-identified by the Chronogarchy secret Presidential Time Travel preidentification program.

The Chronogarchy: How Interdimensional Quantum Access Time Travel

 Manipulates Human Events, Human History,

 and the Interlife

 By Alfred Lambremont Webre, JD, MEd

Author Alfred Lambremont Webre is credited as co-discoverer in 2014 of the Omniverse, the 3rd great cosmological body after the Universe [discovered in 3400BC by Sumerian astronomers] and the Multiverse [coined in 1895 by the American scientist William James]. Scientifically the Omniverse is the totality of all the Universes in the Multiverse plus the Spiritual Dimensions [that include the intelligent civilizations of Souls, Spiritual Beings, and Source or God]. Alfred Lambremont Webre’s three science-based books on the Omniverse can be found at the online learning platform http://Omniversity.us, in the Department of Spiritual Sciences: https://omniversity.us/spiritual-sciences/

In a strained, throwaway line, Saratoga Ocean inexplicably seems to lump in the scientific study of Divinity in the Omniverse with the “MetaVerse”, an AI-driven holographic Earth that manifests along the AI Timeline.

With the exception of this one hiccup, Saratoga Ocean’s channeled vision of the splitting timelines in 2022 converge with the vision of the splitting Organic Earth timeline and the AI Timeline in 2022 in Alfred Lambremont Webre’s Timeline of the Omniverse.