PARENTS have been urged to get their kids vaccinated against measles - with youngsters risk of catching the deadly disease on the rise.

One in 10 children starting school could contract the serious virus because vaccination levels are at a 10-year low.

Health chiefs have warned the super-contagious virus could break out again, with most parents not realising it can be dangerous for kids.

MMR jabs, which also stop mumps and rubella, give near-perfect immunity but 95 per cent of children have to be vaccinated to stop outbreaks.

UK Health Security Agency figures show only 86 per cent of five-year-olds are up to date with two doses.

Vaccines minister Maggie Throup said: “Measles is highly contagious and can be dangerous, so it is very concerning to see falling levels of uptake for the MMR vaccine.

“It is absolutely crucial we make sure our children are fully protected against measles, mumps and rubella with both doses of the jab.”

The UK Health Security Agency is urging parents to make sure their children get vaccinated.

Family doctors offer the first dose when a baby turns one and the second dose at three, before tots start preschool.

UKHSA figures show below 90 per cent of two-year-olds have had the first dose and just 85.5 per cent of five-year-olds have had the second.

Measles is a fast-spreading virus that is most common in children and causes fever, a cough and runny nose and a blotchy rash.

Most kids recover quickly but it can cause serious and sometimes deadly problems like pneumonia and meningitis.

England and Wales had wiped out measles by 2017 – thanks to the vaccines – but as jab rates fell it bounced back and there were 991 cases in 2018.

UKHSA warned: “As international travel resumes, it is more likely that measles will be brought in from countries that have higher levels of the disease.”

Dr Vanessa Saliba, epidemiologist at UKHSA said: “Even a small drop in vaccine coverage can have a big impact on population immunity levels and lead to outbreaks.

“I urge parents to check if their children are up to date with their MMR vaccines and, if not, to get them booked in as soon as they are able. It’s never too late to catch-up."