Amy Schumer is returning to television with a new Hulu Original comedy series Life & Beth.

She writes, directs, executive produces and stars in the new show which is arriving on Hulu next month. Hulu has released first-look images for Life & Beth, giving Schumer's fans a taste of what to expect, and it has also confirmed a release date.

It's the first television show Schumer has written since her Comedy Central sketch show Inside Amy Schumer ended in 2016.

Here's everything we know so far about Life & Beth.

What Is Life & Beth About?

Schumer stars as the titular character Beth, a woman whose life seems terrific on paper. Living in Manhattan, she makes a good living as a wine distributor, she's in a long-term relationship with a successful guy, but a sudden incident forces Beth to confront her past, changing her life forever.

We then see Beth go through flashbacks to her teen self and learn more about how she become who she is, and who she wants to become.

A Hulu description for Life & Beth summarizes the show's plot by saying: "A trip down memory lane is a strong source of trauma, comedy and moving forward."

Writer and director Schumer stars in the lead role as Beth. She's joined by some recognizable talent, and some newcomers too.

Schumer recruited Michael Cera to play the role of John in the series. On Cera's casting, Schumer told Entertainment Weekly, "I was thinking about the kind of person that I have really fallen for over the years and my husband. It's not the person that you usually see as the romantic lead."

Susannah Flood has been cast in the role of Ann, Yamaneika Saunders will play Kiana, while Kevin Kane plays Matt. Kane also contributes behind the camera and is credited as directing at least one episode, while Schumer directs three.

Young actress Violet Young has a prominent role as the younger version of Schumer's character Beth, whom we'll see in the flashbacks throughout the series.

Other talent confirmed to appear includes comedians Michael Rapaport, LaVar Walker and Gary Gulman.

When Is Life & Beth Available on Hulu?

Alongside the first-look images, Hulu confirmed the release date for Schumer's new series Life & Beth.

All ten episodes of Life & Beth will launch on Hulu on Friday March 18, 2022.

You can sign up for a free 30-day trial for Hulu here. After that subscriptions cost either $6.99 per month, or $12.99 per month for an ad-free account.

Newsweek has affiliate partnerships. If you make a purchase using our links, we may earn a share of the sale.