Real Housewives of Orange County star Elizabeth Vargas' Newport Beach, California home was stormed by a SWAT team Tuesday night after her ex-boyfriend allegedly barricaded himself inside.

According to local reports, the standoff began around 5:45 p.m. in the area of East Balboa Boulevard and Medina Way.

The Newport Beach Police Department confirmed there were "possible felony suspects barricaded" inside the property. Authorities told TMZ that Vargas was unharmed in the altercation and not taken as a hostage.

The outlet reported that seven police officers were photographed outside Vargas' home on the strand in Newport Beach and cited troubles with her ex-partner as the cause of the problem.

Local outlet KCAL9 also reported that a "felony crime" and barricade situation took place at the home. Law enforcement told the outlet at around 7:40 p.m. PT that one suspect was placed into custody.

The SWAT team exited the house late Tuesday night with no additional suspects. Meanwhile, a dog, believed to belong to Vargas, was taken out by animal control before being returned to her.

"We've just learned her dog was returned to her at a nearby location," local reporter Mike Rogers tweeted.

No injuries have been reported at this time and Newport Beach Police Department have not added further comments.

The $5 million mansion appeared on Real Housewives of Orange County during her season, according to The Sun.

Missouri-born Vargas is known for starring on the 15th season of ​​Real Housewives of Orange County. The 59-year-old starred in just one season of the reality series.

According to her bio on Bravo, Vargas "always dreamed of living a life of luxury on the beaches of Orange County and with the help of her soon-to-be ex-husband, her dream has become a reality."

The network described the reality star as an "ambitious, outspoken" CEO of an online music company.

She was introduced to the show by fellow cast member Kelly Dodd, who she knew for a few years from the Newport party circuit.

The 16th season of Real Housewives of Orange County premiered in December 2021.

The housewives this season are longtime cast members Shannon Storms Beador, Gina Kirschenheiter and Emily Simpson, along with former housewife Heather Dubrow, new housewives Jen Armstrong and Noella Bergener who have joined the main cast.

Previously-featured cast members include original housewives Kimberly Bryant, Jo De La Rosa, Vicki Gunvalson, Jeana Keough, and Lauri Peterson; and subsequent housewives Tammy Knickerbocker, Tamra Judge, Quinn Fry, Gretchen Rossi, Lynne Curtin, Alexis Bellino, Peggy Tanous, Lydia McLaughlin, Lizzie Rovsek, Meghan King Edmonds, Kelly Dodd, Peggy Sulahian, and Braunwyn Windham-Burke.