Simon Cowell has suffered his second serious injury involving his electronic bike in 18 months.

The British TV personality and talent show judge suffered broken back in August 2020 after falling off of his e-bike, and reports suggest he's broken another bone after his latest crash.

According to the UK newspaper The Sun, Cowell suffered a broken arm and a suspected concussion in an accident near his home in West London.

Cowell has been pictured with a yellow cast on his arm, which is reportedly the result of another e-bike crash.

Sources told The Sun that he was covered in blood after he was propelled over the handlebars of his electronic bike. Paramedics arrived on the scene and took the 62-year-old to hospital with a suspected concussion and a broken arm.

A source told the paper "Simon is lucky to be alive." They continued: "He was pedaling along, with his electric motor on, when the wheels suddenly went from under him after hitting a wet patch.

The source alleges Cowell wasn't wearing a helmet when he crashed the vehicle, which can travel up to 20mph, and that he had blood pouring down his face after the crash.

The incident happened last Thursday, and came around the same time Cowell was filming the audition stages for the UK version of his show, Britain's Got Talent.

What Was Simon Cowell's First Accident?

Cowell's broken arm is the second accident he's had as a result of a bike crash in the last 18 months after he also fell off one near his Malibu home in August 2020.

The previous incident seemed to be more serious as he had to have surgery to repair his broken back. A spokesperson for Cowell at the time said he broke his back in a number of places and had to have a metal rod inserted during a six-hour surgery.

Cowell acknowledged the accident at the time and tweeted about the dangers of riding an electronic trail bike for the first time without proper preparation.

He also thanked the nurses and doctors who helped him, calling them the "some of the nicest people I have ever met."

Cowell's next appearance on American television is like to come on the AGT spin-off America's Got Talent: Extreme, which will focus on stunt performers.

Cowell is credited as the creator of the new show and will sit on the judging panel alongside WWE wrestler Nikki Bella and motorsports professional Travis Pastrana. Terry Crews will host the series which premieres on NBC on Monday, February 21, 2022.