An Ohio teenager faces a possible jail sentence after a decapitated dog was allegedly filmed for a social media post, according to reports.

The Crawford County Sheriff's Office was alerted to reports that a dog's head was sitting on the top of a guardrail post on Stetzer Road, northeast of Bucyrus, on January 14.

Following an investigation of the area, the sheriff, dog warden and prosecutor suspected a 17-year-old boy hit the dog on his way to school in the morning, NBC4 affiliate WCMH reported on Tuesday.

They later said the boy and a friend returned to the place where the dog had been hit by a car.

According to the network, County prosecutor Matthew Crall said in a statement: "They stated their purpose was to photograph the scene for insurance purposes.

"Upon their return, the minor allegedly placed the head, which he claimed was already detached, on the fence post in what can only be described as a gruesome act.

"This action was filmed by the minor's friend (who was also a minor) and placed on social media, another bad decision."

Crall added that it was possible that someone else decapitated the dog after they came across it as the animal had been at the location for 12 hours before the sheriff arrived, according to WCMH.

As a result, cruelty to a companion animal cannot be proven beyond reasonable doubt. A veterinarian's examination of the dog also found the head had been removed after it died.

"The shared opinion was also that the severing of the head did not occur as part of the accident," said Crall, according to the network.

According to legal firm Riddell Law, Ohio law defines criminal mischief as follows: "No person shall, without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the property of another."

It added: "In order to prove criminal mischief, the state must prove some change in either the physical location or physical condition of the property.

"To be guilty of criminal mischief, one must damage or alter the condition of the property. Merely being present on property will not rise to the level of criminal mischief."

A person convicted of criminal mischief in Ohio faces a maximum of 60 days in jail and a fine of no more than $500.

In a news release seen by WCMH, Crall said: "I would like to extend my sympathy to the family of the dog. For many dog owners, the dog is a member of the family.

"Despite recent increases in penalties for crimes against companion animals such as a dog, the criminal judicial system will not correct the wrongs committed in this matter.

"Lastly, I also respectfully request that our community please respect the privacy of everyone directly involved in this incident. I will confirm that several threats of retaliation have occurred.

"While the emotions may be understandable, further retaliation will not change what has occurred and may result in criminal charges.

"Many may find enforcement of the law to be less than satisfying. Please allow those of us attempting to enforce the law (as imperfect as it may be), the opportunity to do our job."

Newsweek has contacted the Crawford County Sheriff's Office for comment.