Three girls were shot outside a school in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Tuesday night.

The shooting occurred outside of Rufus King High School at 1801 W Olive Street around 7:30 p.m.

The victims are aged 15, 16 and 17. The girls were taken to a local hospital after the shooting and are expected to survive their injuries.

Police said the three girls got into an altercation after leaving a basketball game at the school.

The Milwaukee Police Department said they know the suspect they are looking for but no arrests have been made.

Newsweek has contacted the Milwaukee Police Department and Rufus King High School for comment.

This shooting comes on the same day that the acting Milwaukee mayor, Cavalier Johnson, declared February 1- 7 to be National Gun Violence Survivors Week.

He said the purpose of the week was to show support for those who have suffered at the hands of gun violence and reaffirmed his commitment to tackling the issue.

"The city of Milwaukee proudly joins Moms Demand Action and community members in recognizing National Gun Violence Survivors Week during the week of February 1st to February 7th," Johnson said in his press conference.

"National Gun Violence Survivors Week is designed to honor and remember all victims and survivors of gun violence.

"[It also] aims to raise public awareness that firearms are the second leading cause of death for children and teens."

He went on to say that Milwaukee has already seen multiple gun violence deaths this year.

"As mayor, I am committed to the leadership and dedication needed to move the city towards security as well as prosperity," he said.

"The residents of Milwaukee deserve to feel safe, too many of them are able to illegally obtain guns and too many are resolving their conflicts with bullets. We have seen that play out one too many times this year already, it has been a very deadly year.

"Last month I shared my public safety plan and priorities for violence reduction, these are neighborhood-level investments, community healing as well as law enforcement."

On January 12, the mayor said how critical it was to address violent crime in the city.

"After five years of decreasing violence we have broken homicide records in two consecutive years," he told a press conference.

He continued: "Residents deserve to feel safe. As a parent and as a life-long Milwaukeean, I am committed to turning the tide on violent crime and giving our families and communities the safety, security and healing we deserve."

He added: "As mayor, I am tackling these challenges head-on. I am committed to improving the health and safety of our community by reducing violence, supporting social services which address the root causes, and wellness programs that promote community healing.

"To accomplish my vision for a safe and prosperous Milwaukee, I will build upon my work with governmental partners, community-based organizations, the private sector, and most importantly neighbors and community members."