If The Book of Boba Fett Episode 6 proved anything it's that the Disney+ show isn't all about its eponymous bounty hunter.

Despite the drama being named after him, Boba Fett (Temuera Morrison) was once again side-lined in Episode 6 in favour of other characters in the "Star Wars" universe.

Characters from both The Mandalorian and The Clone Wars made an appearance in the episode, which will no doubt have dramatic consequences for the franchise as a whole.

All 'The Mandalorian' Characters in 'The Book of Boba Fett' Episode 6

The Book of Boba Fett opens with the return of Timothy Olyphant's Cobb Vanth as he intercepts a group of Pyke syndicate members doing a dodgy deal.

After first trying to persuade them to stand down he is forced to kill the majority of them and leave one alive, allowing him to leave with a warning and the money they intended to use to buy spice.

From there the episode moves onto the Mandalorian (Pedro Pascal) and his quest to see Grogu again, who has been training with Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill).

Din Djarin heads to the planet where his former ward is training so he can find and see him, as well as give him the gift he had The Armorer (Emily Swallow) make for him.

R2D2 meets him upon his arrival and takes him to a location to wait for Grogu and Luke, who are seen starting out their training together.

Grogu struggles to keep his focus during meditation and Luke shows him how he can learn to use The Force, effectively taking on the role that Yoda did for him all those years ago, and even quoting his former Jedi Master.

Luke also helps Grogu remember some of his past, learning he was captured after his Jedi protectors were killed during Order 66.

The Mandalorian wakes up from a nap to discover Ahsoka Tano (Rosario Dawson) is watching him, and she takes him to where Luke and Grogu are training, but persuades him not to see the little one because it will make things "difficult" for him.

Unfortunately for fans hoping for a reunion, Djarin agrees and gives his gift to Ahsoka, who in turn gives it to Luke.

For a very brief moment Boba Fett and Fennec Shand (Ming-Na Wen) make an appearance in their own show, but only to discuss their assault on the Pyke syndicate and share their need for foot soldiers.

Cue the Mandalorian saying he can find someone who can help and leaving them to meet with Cobb and ask for his assistance.

Cobb is hesitant but eventually agrees to gather his people to see if they will fight with Djarin and Boba Fett, but after the Mandalorian leaves Cobb is met by The Clone Wars antagonist Cad Bane.

Bane is a ruthless bounty hunter in his own right, and he demands that Cobb not help the Mandalorian and leave the Pyke syndicate alone, offering him double whatever Djarin is paying to do so.

Cobb doesn't agree and begins a tense stalemate with Cobb, but unfortunately it ends with him and his second-in-command being shot, and whether this means Cobb is dead is unclear.

The Book of Boba Fett airs every Wednesday on Disney+.