Adrian L. Burrell’s film “The Game God(S)” opens with a baptism. A man hums a mournful hymn to a tune reminiscent of a Negro spiritual. He’s accompanied by a Black band, dressed all in white, their sound rich in horns and world-weariness. Onscreen, a Black man and boy, also in white, march in slow step; the man’s suit is such a sharp, insistent shade that it seems to glow. The boy lowers himself into a tub and stares up at us, and we notice, for a breathless moment, the image of a police car flashing into view, just before the camera shifts back to the boy’s uncertain face.

Burrell told me that the film’s title came from portrayals of hustler and pimp culture in Blaxploitation movies. Examples like “The Mack” and “Space Is the Place” were made or set in Oakland, where Burrell grew up, and where it’s common for people who make a living hustling in black-market economies—sex work, drug trafficking—to say phrases like “the Game God is going to bless you,” Burrell told me. Who is the Game God? She’s “a patron of souls on the path trying to make something out of nothing,” Ayodele Nzinga, the first poet laureate of Oakland, says in the film, with all the gravitas of a priestess, performing a spoken-word-style monologue that she and Burrell collaborated on.

The term Game God prompted Burrell to reflect on the various objects of our worship. He was especially interested in the ways in which people deify one of the country’s most popular beliefs. “I’m just questioning: How real is the American Dream?” he said to me. The film seems to ask its viewers the same question. It deals in complications and juxtapositions. It snakes its ways through images imbued with a mythical, ethereal quality—a Black man playing a keyboard outdoors, against a backdrop of factories that exhale plumes of smoke; a Black woman and her daughter in sherbet-colored gowns sitting on horses—and interviews with people who are or have been incarcerated. In one scene, a man talks candidly about how his hustling started off as a way to survive, then became more about luxury: “I risk my life and freedom every day for material shit.” A few minutes later, we see him recording an Instagram story from a hospital bed. The film splices his cell-phone video with images of his car, freshly punctured with bullet holes. At different points, Burrell’s camera hovers in front of people’s faces as they repeat “the American Dream” over and over, forcing us to meditate on the term’s meaning. They seem to be trying to speak the concept into existence; at the same time, paradoxically, the over-repetition removes its wonder and power. “I believe the American Dream is like a carrot,” Burrell said. “You can sail it out in front of people who were never meant to be citizens.”

Burrell told me that his childhood was a “very colorful situation. A lot of people [I know] have been in prison.” He saw a way out with the Marine Corps. From there, he went to art school, then Stanford—a path representing his own pursuit of the American Dream. Then, in 2019, he became a victim of police brutality. A cop assaulted him on his own porch; Burrell recorded the incident as it happened, and is currently suing the city of Vallejo. “It’s interesting how, in that sense, time isn’t linear,” he said. “People think I’m working towards this thing, towards this upward mobility—to be a homeowner, to be this or to be that—but at any given moment you can be snatched back to 1942.”

“The Game God(S)” is keenly aware of this precariousness of Black existence, and of the way that the past often makes appearances in the present. In her monologue, Nzinga lays a reference to modern-day men throwing dice alongside one to the 1923 Rosewood massacre, in which a white mob levelled a prospering Black neighborhood in Florida. “I wanted to create a meditation that forces us to hold history and its afterlives in the same vessel. A film that troubles the archive and doesn’t allow for simple endings,” Burrell wrote, in a director’s statement. There are indeed no simple endings in the film, only complex truths that are sometimes hard to stomach but are well worth telling.