PHOENIX — Even the return of James Harden wasn’t enough to avoid the Nets’ longest losing streak in two years.

Despite Harden playing through a sore strained hand, the Nets dug an early hole and fell 121-111 to league-leading Phoenix before a sellout crowd of 17,071 at Footprint Center.

Harden — who missed one game with hamstring woes and another because of the strained hand — finished with 22 points and 10 assists, while Kyrie Irving scored 11 of his team-high 26 in the final period as Brooklyn tried to rally. But against the white-hot Suns, it wasn’t enough.

“We had opportunities,” Harden said. “We’ve just got to get off to a better start. First quarter really hurt us. The last three quarters we were pretty good and that’s the game right there.

“We take the lead in the (third) quarter — and we just couldn’t get it done. Overall, great effort: Just sucks to come up short.”

The Nets (29-21) came up short in stretching their losing skid to five straight, their worst since Jan. 14-23, 2020. They have dropped 12 of their last 18, and this one they essentially gave away in the first quarter.

“We can’t make so many mental mistakes out there against great teams like this,” Irving said.

Brooklyn’s defense got carved up by a well-oiled Suns machine that was absolutely clinical in their actions. The Nets trailed 39-29 after a first quarter that saw them allow the Suns to shoot 71.4 percent. Suns star Devin Booker also had 14 of his game-high 35 points in the quarter.

After that, they would only lead again for 14 seconds — after a Patty Mills 3 made it 70-69 with 7:17 left in the third.

“That was the game,” Irving said. “In the first quarter we came to the bench and it was seven minutes [left], and they were on pace to score 40 points.

“I mean, when they shoot 55 percent from the field I don’t know how many NBA team’s you’re going to beat.”

Precious few. And none against a team this good. The Suns won their 11th straight to improve to a league-best 41-9.

Phoenix star Chris Paul put on a point guard masterclass with 20 points and a game-high 14 assists to finish a plus-20.

The Nets trailed 65-58 at the break, but reeled off seven straight to pull even on a Kessler Edwards hook shot.

Brooklyn took a 70-69 edge on Mills’ left-wing 3, but this time were on the wrong end of a 7-0 run.

The Nets were still in contact, trailing just 78-74 when Harden put up a floater. But JaVale McGee snatched it out of the air, with every Net protesting for a goaltending call that never came.

What did come was a Booker fast-break bucket the other way. A 10-2 run left the Nets trailing 88-76 after a Cam Johnson’s 3.

Irving led a comeback that fell just short. He had nine points in the first 2:58 of the fourth quarter to pull Brooklyn within 97-94. But Phoenix answered with a 6-0 run to kill the momentum, Bridges sandwiched a pair of and-ones around missed layups by Irving and Nic Claxton. The second, with 8:15 left, put it away.

“We’ve just got to be smarter with it, and we got to just think the game,” said Harden, playing through the hand injury he exacerbated last Friday at practice and will now have to manage. “It’s not good enough just to play hard. You’ve got to be smart out there. You’ve got to think the game of basketball, with your effort. If you do that, you give yourself a better chance.

“The next morning, I woke up and probably couldn’t move my hand at all. It actually woke up pretty early, my trainer, just to figure out what the hell was going on. The MRI [exam] was a strain. It’s calmed down. I’m back on the court. … Just continue to get treatment continue to keep the swelling down and ice it and listen to my trainers because they’re professionals.”