Our government is working overtime to try to inject every citizen with experimental gene therapy that has proven to be entirely ineffective at protecting anyone from COVID-19 infection. The leftist-run mainstream media outlets, many of which run paid advertisements for pharmaceutical corporations, is dedicated to inundating the public with the tyrannical Covid programming. The media is now employing the ruthless campaign tactics it used to demonize Trump supporters against anyone who debates mask or Covid vaccine efficacy. Approximately 30,000 Americans traveled from across the country to Defeat Covid mandates in Washington DC last week. Attendees included physicians, attorneys, grassroots organizers, athletes, musicians and activists of all ages, arguably the most politically diverse crowd to ever gather on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma But if you turn on the TV or rely on the mainstream media for news, you’d believe only a handful of “dangerous,” “crazy,” “conspiracy theorists” and an “extremists” oppose medical tyranny. WATCH: In interviews with the Gateway Pundit, over a dozen attendees of the rally –including Dr. Paul Alexander, the Chief Scientific Officer with The Unity Project and former Former WHO consultant, […]

Read the whole story at www.thegatewaypundit.com

They say we have to go big or go home. We’re trying to go big and bring the patriotic truth the the nation, but we need help. Readers may or may not realize that over the past year, we’ve been bringing more conservative news and opinion outlets under our wing. Don’t take our expansion as a sign of riches; all of the “acquisitions” have been through sweat and promises of greater things to come for all involved. As a result, we’ve been able to bring together several independent media sites under a unified vision of preventing America from succumbing to the progressive, “woke,” Neo-Marxist ideologies that are spreading like wildfire across America. The slow and steady reopening of America is revealing there was a lot more economic hardship brought about from the Covd-19 lockdowns than most realize. While we continue to hope advertising dollars on the sites go up, it’s simply not enough to do things the right way. We are currently experiencing a gap between revenue and expenses that cannot be overcome by click-ads and MyPillow promos alone (promo code “NOQ” by the way). To overcome our revenue gap and keep these sites running, our needs fluctuate between $3000-$7000 per month. In other words, we’re in the red and hemorrhaging. The best way you can help us grow and continue to bring the truth to the people is by donating. We appreciate everything, whether a dollar or $10,000. Anything brings us closer to a point of stability when we can hire writers, editors, and support staff to make the America First message louder. Our Giving Fuel page makes it easy to donate one-time or monthly. Alternatively, you can donate through PayPal as well. As the world spirals towards radical progressivism, the need for truthful journalism has never been greater. But in these times, we need as many conservative media voices as possible. Please help keep NOQ Report and the other sites in the network going. Thank you and God Bless,

 JD Rucker

All ORIGINAL content on this site is © 2021 NOQ Report. All REPUBLISHED content has received direct or implied permission for reproduction. With that said, our content may be reproduced and distributed as long as it has a link to the original source and the author is credited prominently. We don’t mind you using our content as long as you help out by giving us credit with a prominent link. If you feel like giving us a tip for the content, we will not object!