Rodney Robinson, a public school indoctrinator who was named national teacher of the year in 2019, is calling for “heroes” to commit terror attacks against Republicans.

Robinson made the comment in reference to Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY). He celebrated the cowardly ambush attack against Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) by his own neighbor in 2017 and called for McConnell’s neighbors to accost the senate majority leader.

“Who are Mitch McConnell’s neighbors? I’m just saying Rand Paul’s did what a true Kentucky hero should do. It’s your time to step up,” Robinson wrote in his violent tweet celebrating political violence.

Trending: Federal Judge (Stacey Abrams’ Sister!) Orders Two Georgia Counties to Cease Removing Ineligible Voters from Rolls

CBS This Morning gave Robinson a glowing profile after he was named 2019 national teacher of the year.

“Robinson teaches social studies and history at Virgie Binford Education Center, a school inside the Richmond Juvenile Detention Center. His lessons focus on helping his students become socially conscious citizens who make the most out of their second chance. Robinson stressed his students are just like any other teenagers,” CBS This Morning wrote.

It should come as no surprise that Robinson preaches left-wing racialist dogma from his position as teacher.

“By economic equity, we need to make sure all students receive the resources to achieve what he or she deserves. And cultural equity, we need to make sure that all students have teachers and people who look like them who are relevant to their culture and can inspire them to do whatever,” Robinson said.

Big League Politics has reported on President Trump’s efforts to return patriotic education to the nation’s classrooms to counteract thugs like Robinson:

President Donald Trump announced the formation of a new ‘1776 Commission’ during a speech at the National Archives Museum on Thursday, creating a new commission that will work to instill principles of patriotic and pro-American education in defiance to left-wing school and university systems. The President spoke of the need for the new commission in light of the vision championed by the cultural left, citing the New York Times’ 1619 Project and ‘critical race theory’ anti-white teachings pervasive throughout Fortune 500 companies and federal government agencies. (The President issued an executive order banning critical race theory brainwashing at the beginning of the month.) The 1776 Commission will work to promote patriotic education and defend American heritage and character. It’s likely the organization will create curriculum that celebrates the American legacy, as leftists in public school and university systems work relentlessly to attack it. “Our mission is to defend the legacy of America’s founding, the virtue of America’s heroes, and the nobility of the American character,” Trump said of the Commission’s goals. “We must clear away the twisted web of lies in our schools and classrooms and teach our children the magnificent truth about our country. We want our sons and daughters to know that they are the citizens of the most exceptional nation in the history of the world.” “These radicals have been aided and abetted by liberal politicians, establishment media, and even large corporations,” Trump said. “Whether it is the mob in the street or the cancel culture in the boardroom, the goal is the same: To silence dissent, to scare you out of speaking the truth, and to bully Americans into abandoning their values, their heritage, and their very way of life.” “We are here today to declare that we will never submit to tyranny. We will reclaim our history and our country for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed,” the president continued.

Americans have never been dumber, and violent left-wing activists in the classroom such as Robinson are to blame for that.