It happened four years ago this weekend and it's a moment that Aston Villa fans will want to forget.

So too will the hapless protagonist Micah Richards.

Sadly for Richards and for the claret and blue faithful, Gary Lineker mischiveously opened up old wounds on Match of the Day this week.

Prompted by Romaine Sawyers' embarrassing own goal in West Bromwich Albion's 5-0 drubbing by Leeds United, Lineker asked Richards if he had ever scored an OG.

Giggling on the BBC highlights show in midweek, Lineker said: "Micah, you gave me an extraordinary statistic, you told me that for a defender you never got sent off and you never scored an own goal.

"We've checked with Opta and there it is..."

Lineker then proceded to play a clip of an own goal that was credited to the former Manchester City and England defender during Villa's 2015-16 relegation season.

It happened away in a 3-1 defeat to Sunderland on January 2 2016 as Remi Garde's strugglers were plunged closer to the drop.

Fans will prefer to remember a belting consolation goal from Carles Gil that afternoon after a surging run from Adama Traore, but instead they had to relive the moment Patrick van Aanholt's shot deflected off Richards to give the Wearsiders the lead.

"I can't believe you're doing this to me!" boomed Richards with his trademark laugh as Lineker teased him up about the clip.

"I've just got over that, you've just brought back these memories. Okay, I've take that, I've scored one own goal."

Given the success of Dean Smith's men this season, Villa fans are happy to banish the humilation of 2015-16 for ever more.

In our daily Aston Villa bulletin, we'll be bringing you the latest breaking news, transfer features and comment pieces, as well as the key talking points for fans. How do you sign up? It's easy and only takes seconds. Simply type your email address into the box at the top of this article and hit sign up. And that's it, you're all set. You can also sign up here. If you decide later that you no longer wish to receive the emails, simply follow the unsubscribe link in one of the newsletters - but we don't think you'll want to. And what's more, it's absolutely free! You can also get all the latest updates by following us on social media here Facebook and Twitter. We also have a free app which you can download. It is always up-to-date with the latest news from across the region. Google Play Store and App Store

Villa are much more enjoyable to watch nowadays and so is Richards who is proving to be much more entertaining as a pundit than he ever was during his frustrating, injury-ravaged claret and blue career.

There were high hopes for Richards when Tim Sherwood signed him from Fiorentina in July 2015, but he was part of the doomed relegation squad and any attempts to make amends were hampered by a knee problem which left him as a non-playing spectator on the sidelines for several seasons before his release last summer.