Tommy Dorfman and her former partner, Peter Zurkuhlen (Getty/Taylor Hill/Donato Sardella)

Tommy Dorfman and her husband Peter Zurkuhlen have officially decided to end their marriage, after first separating in 2021.

Dorfman first revealed the couple’s relationship had changed after she confirmed she is a transgender woman, with the actress revealing that the pair’s connection had turned into more of a friendship.

It has now been revealed that the 13 Reasons Why star’s partner filed for divorce in Los Angeles on Tuesday (1 February), as stated in court documents obtained by TMZ.

The former couple first met at a housewarming party held by a mutual friend and the couple became engaged in April 2015.

They tied the knot the following year at a ceremony held in Portland, Maine.

Dorfman previously explained that her romance with Zurkuhlen had been evolving into a friendship ever since she began embracing her gender.

In a Time magazine interview published in July 2021, Tommy explained: “The types of romantic partnerships I seek out are different. I was in a nine-year relationship in which I was thought of as a more male-bodied person, with a gay man.

“So, we’ve had incredible conversations to redefine our relationship as friends.”

Indeed, the pair have remained close since Tommy’s transition with Zurkuhlen publicly supporting Dorfman on social media after she came out.

The ChipChop Systems founder gushed that he had “so much love” for Dorfman, who he described as “gorgeous”.

Since going public as trans, Dorfman says she has “never felt better” as she told InStyle magazine: “I don’t think I’ve ever been genuinely happy until this past year. I look at the internet chronicle of photos of me since I started working, and I can see how f**king unhappy I was in every photo. It’s wild.

“I just switched my hormones, and I’ve never felt better in my life. I spent 28 years of my life suicidal and depressed and recovering from alcoholism and drug addiction.”

Dorfman famously starred as Ryan Shaver in 13 Reasons Why, as well as appearing in Jane The Virgin, Insatiable and Love, Victor.

Audiences will see her first role as a woman in Lena Dunham’s upcoming film, Sharp Stick.