A popular Worcestershire shopping centre has issued a statement in response to the county being moved in to Tier 3.

Redditch ’s Kingfisher Shopping Centre has responded after the county was placed in the tougher ‘very high alert’ Tier 3 level of the Government’s coronavirus restrictions. The county's public health director, Dr Kath Cobain, has explained the county risked cases doubling in a fortnight if changes were not made.

While non-essential (and essential) shops are still allowed to open in Tier 3, as are personal care providers like hairdressers and nail bars, indoor entertainment venues must close.

In addition places selling food and drink must also close, except for those providing takeaways.

A full list of the Tier 3 restrictions can be found here.

The Redditch centre confirmed it will remain open but there will be some closures – with shoppers also advised to shop alone. The venue has also introduced a traffic light system which it is promoting on its website and social media channels indicating the safest time to shop.

A spokesperson for the Kingfisher Shopping Centre said: “Our priority continues to be the safety and wellbeing of our guests, tenants and staff at Kingfisher Shopping Centre.

“Following the government's latest announcement placing Redditch into Tier 3 from 31st December, the centre will remain open for both essential and non-essential stores.

“The new restrictions do mean however that our entertainment venues and eateries will be affected.

“We are working hard to get as much information as possible from these venues and the eateries who will be operating a takeaway service so please bear with us and keep an eye on our website for the most up to date information.

“We advise guests to consider shopping alone, avoid visiting during our busy periods and to continue checking our real-time traffic light system on our website and social channels. We also urge guests to remember to follow the 'hands, face, space' guidance.

“We would like to thank you for your understanding and continued support.”