Rihanna and Fenty Beauty have unveiled a new Icon lipstick collection. (Fenty Beauty)

Rihanna has unveiled a new Fenty Beauty collection and it’s called Icon, of course.

Inspired by the singer and beauty mogul herself, the 10-piece lip collection is dropping this month.

It will be released on 4 February and will be available from fentybeauty.com.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

The Fenty Icon collection was unveiled on social media, with a campaign video starring Rihanna repping the new lipstick line.

In the clip the pop culture icon wears her favourite shade – The MVP – a red-blue colour that “exudes confidence”.

She told ELLE: “The perfect red lip is the sexiest, most empowering thing you can put on when it comes to beauty”.

“I love that anyone can put it on and feel strong and sexy with just one swipe,” she adds.

Rihanna also revealed that the bullet shape lipstick has been designed to fit perfectly into the singer’s cupid’s bow for a “personal touch”.

When announcing the launch on her Twitter and Instagram, she noted in the caption that the soft-matte formula is “everything”.

Rihanna also confirmed that the lipsticks include hyaluronic acid, vitamins C & E and amino acids for a creamy, plush texture.

It’s available in 10 shades, three reds and seven neutrals, with names including Ballin’ Babe, Pose Queen and Schola Sista.

The collection also marks Fenty Beauty’s first refillable lip range from the brand.

Beauty customers can purchase the lipstick for £18, while the earth-conscious packaging is priced at £10 and can be refilled each time.

To shop the Fenty Icon collection head to fentybeauty.com.

The brand is giving the gays everything they want with the collection, which has been released ahead of Valentine’s Day.

It includes a one-size, adjustable harness, mesh briefs, mesh tank top and a crop top, plus there’s also satin boxers and pants with heart print designs if you’re not a fan of the lingerie range.

Some pieces have already sold out following a huge reaction on social media to the range, but you can shop the full men’s section at savagex.com.