The moon and Saturn make an unlikely team but they add emotional understanding to your natural determination.

So, when someone asks you for more time or more love, you can see how much it means.

As a new month begins, Venus helps draw a line under old relationship regrets.

Success may be smaller and quieter than you expect but this does not mean it isn’t what you have been waiting for.

Take time to reassess your goals and ditch or delay the ones that don’t matter.

Your love profile is ready for a romance race, maybe towards a special date, or a second set of chances.

Everything you have learned about love and yourself is ready to be put into action as the moon and sun connect.

Instead of keeping your true self hidden, let it show – even if this means saying or doing things that are a surprise to those closest to you.

Tropical food or music sets the scene for hot new passion.

You have held on tight to some strong views but as your chart shifts into something more flexible, it is time to let go.

Putting yourself forward for new roles is easier and more effective than you expect.

Revising your passion personality into a more daring version makes a love adventure.

It is not easy to go back to a deal and ask for changes but if that is what you need to do, now is a good time.

Do not accept what you are offered, insist on what you deserve.

The steady hand of Saturn helps you stick with conversations as long as it takes.

Love-wise, get in step with an energetic dancer.

Fitness promises may feel hard to meet but a surge of planet energy can help you push yourself.

That inner strength you have been seeking is already there, ready to be used.

Copycat actions are not right for you.

At home, among friends and at work, the more original you can be, the better. Luck rings at 9.

Your passion sensors are set to sensitive and just one smile or smiley-face symbol is all it takes to feel yourself falling.

This time, you can be yourself from the start.

If you are already in a relationship, switching roles and introducing an element of the unexpected can boost shared love energy.

How you create a foundation of personal trust is at the centre of your chart.

All you need is there inside you, so stop searching for it in other people.

If you are settled with someone, a moon of emotional truth encourages honesty.

You need less of one, more of the other.

From body language to hand-made gifts, you can find ways to show you care and any words that follow can really work.

Pluto’s upheaval ability can shake up cash sums but also show you ways of increasing old amounts.

You are a rock to so many people but this can take its toll on your energies.

Make space to pamper yourself, with treats or just the time you always need but never seem to find.

Starting to put yourself first is the right way forward.

The Capricorn luck factor links you to a contest with a US connection.

You have pure personality power and the ability to work any room in a social or a professional setting.

Accept an offer to take a project to the next stage.

Mercury may have encouraged you to delay revealing some personal feelings but now the time is right.

Lovers will be amazed by what you have been hiding.

Saturn’s ability to endure has kept you too long in a situation you know is not quite right.

But as soon as you start making tiny adjustments, so much can change.

An ending or beginning you have doubted could ever happen can be on the calendar.

Adding friendship to passion keeps the balance right.