Former Aston Villa forward Tony Cascarino has claimed that Jack Grealish has been as good, if not better than Manchester City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne so far this season.

Grealish has caught the eye for both club and country so far this season.

The 25-year-old has scored five goals and provided a further eight assists in the league in 2020/21, as well as establishing himself as a key member of Gareth Southgate’s England squad ahead of this summer’s European Championships.

His performances have earned praise from around football, with the Villa captain being compared to Paul Gascoine by fans and pundits.

But Cascarino has said that Grealish is playing on a similar level to De Bruyne, a player who is widely regarded as one of the best attacking midfielders in the world.

“Who’s been better this year, Jack Grealish or Kevin De Bruyne?” He asked on .

“And I’ve put him in the highest table because Kevin De Bruyne is the best out there.”

“On form you’d say Jack Grealish,” came the answer from presenter Natalie Sawyer.

“I’d never thought I’d put anybody in front of De Bruyne as an attacking midfielder, as in this season, over time, it’s a completely different question, Kevin De Bruyne has won everything.” Cascarino added.

In our daily Aston Villa bulletin, we'll be bringing you the latest breaking news, transfer features and comment pieces, as well as the key talking points for fans. How do you sign up? It's easy and only takes seconds. Simply type your email address into the box at the top of this article and hit sign up. And that's it, you're all set. You can also sign up here. If you decide later that you no longer wish to receive the emails, simply follow the unsubscribe link in one of the newsletters - but we don't think you'll want to. And what's more, it's absolutely free! You can also get all the latest updates by following us on social media here Facebook and Twitter. We also have a free app which you can download. It is always up-to-date with the latest news from across the region. Google Play Store and App Store

“Right now I’m watching Jack Grealish play a level of football with only I can compare with is what Kevin De Bruyne did.”

De Bruyne has made 13 Premier League appearances this season, scoring two goals and providing seven assists for Man City.

The two players will have to wait until April to face each other, with Villa hosting Man City at Villa Park, although there is still the reverse fixture to be rescheduled.