Per RedState’s original report on the matter, Whoopi Goldberg found herself in hot water the last couple of days for an antisemitic rant she gave on The View. The longtime co-host of the ABC daytime show asserted that the Holocaust was not “about race” and that it was “white people doing it to white people.”

But it was the context of her comments that made things especially egregious. Goldberg was expressing a common antisemitic trope, which is that the systematic extermination of the Jewish people during the Holocaust was not equivalent to the racial discrimination suffered by other groups. That is, of course, ludicrous and completely ahistorical.

After putting out an apology, Goldberg then went on Stephen Colbert’s show that evening and essentially doubled down.

‘When you talk about being a racist, you can’t call this racism,’ she said. ‘This was evil. This wasn’t based on skin. You couldn’t tell who was Jewish. You had to delve deeply and figure it out. My point is: they had to do the work. ‘If the Klan is coming down the street and I’m standing with a Jewish friend, I’m going to run, but if my friend decides not to run, they’ll get passed by most times because you can’t tell who is Jewish. You don’t know.’

Again, that’s a nonsensical, ignorant contention considering racism against blacks has also been perpetrated in situations where a person’s race was not immediately apparent. That’s where the disgusting “one drop” rule came from. Racism manifests in many different forms.

Perhaps that was a bridge too far? Goldberg has now been suspended from The View.

It is notable that this is only a two-week suspension. She will be back, and she is not losing her job. It’s probable she’s not even losing any money while she sits out. In short, this is a slap on the wrist, and one that likely wouldn’t have happened had she just apologized and kept her mouth shut after her initial comments. There was a certain arrogance to her decision to go on Colbert and repeat much of what got her in trouble in the first place. That caught up to her.

Personally, I don’t have a lot of energy to waste on caring about Goldberg getting a two-week vacation. She’ll be just fine, and unlike many on the right, she won’t be ostracized or punished long-term.