Wolverhampton Wanderers are a goalscoring centre forward away from getting back to their best.

That's the verdict of pundit Ian Wright after Wolves' agonising defeat at Manchester United in midweek.

Wolves produced an impressive perfoprmance at Old Trafford only to be hit by the sucker punch of Marcus Rashford's last-gasp winner for United.

David De Gea was in fine form to keep Nuno's men at bay but Wright acknowldged what all Wolves fans know - that they are crying out for a striker.

It has been a familiar frustration since a sickening head injury to Raul Jimenez at Arsenal in late November sidelined the Mexican No.9.

Wolves, who travel to Brighton on Saturday, have remained competitive across the pitch during Jimenez's absence, but have failed to replace thier star striker's goal threat.

Wright told Match of the Day: "Wolves very very unclucky at Manchester United.

"Wolves fans won't want to hear it but if they've got that goalscorer then playing like this they'd probably nick this game and win it.

"But United did what they do, they didn't give up because they've got top quality players."

The former Arsenal forward was full of praise for Romain Saiss, who suffered the misfortune of deflecting in Rashford's late winning goal.

"Rashford's got a lot to do but we're talking about someone with supreme confidence. I know it's his first goal at Old Trafford since July, but he gets the luck and gets the deflection off Saiss, who had a brilliant game."

Former Chelsea striker Diego Costa, now at Atletico Madrid, is among the frontmen being linked with a move to Wolves during the imminent January transfer window as Jimenez is guided carefully back to fitness by the Molineux medics and his understudy Fabio Silva still finding his feet.

Ex-Wolves flop Jamie O'Hara reckons Costa would be 'perfect' for his old team.

"He fits a certain team and a certain club," O'Hara told talkSPORT. "Wolves is the perfect answer. They have got the link (agent Jorge Mendes).

"Jimenez is obviously injured, I'm not having Fabio Silva at the minute because he's too young to be playing as a number nine for Wolves. There's too much to carry.

"Bringing in someone like Diego Costa would be perfect for them, it's just whether they could get him and pay the wages."