On December 21, 1789, just as France was in the very early days of its chaotic revolution, the country’s brand new “Constituent Assembly” passed a desperate decree aimed at preventing economic disaster.

France was already on the brink of financial ruin; the national debt was so large that the annual interest payments were more than the government’s entire tax revenue!

Politicians knew that default was imminent, and they needed to figure out a way to raise cash. Quickly.

So they hatched a new version of a very old idea: create lots and lots of paper money.

France was primarily using gold, silver, and copper coins up to this point; their main currency, for example, was the livre, which contained about 0.6 grams of silver.

But with the stroke of a pen, the assembly created a form of paper money called assignats.

The first decree in late 1789 authorized the printing of 400 million livres worth of the new paper money– enough to give the government some financial breathing room.

But they first had to convince the public that these new assignats were actually valuable, and not just worthless paper.

So the politicians then decreed that all the land owned by the Catholic church in France would be confiscated by the government.

They valued this land at 2 billion livres, or roughly 5x the amount of assignats that were being printed. This was enough to convince the peasants that the paper money was backed by something of value… and so the printing commenced!

Naturally it didn’t take long for the government to blow through the first batch of assignats. So by August 1790, not even a year later, the assembly authorized another round of printing, worth 1.9 billion livres.

They promised, of course, that it would be the last time they issued new paper money. Yet the very next month, in September 1790, they authorized another 800 million.

This farce continued until the French government had issued billions of assignats.

Yet all along the way there were politicians and bankers who insisted that their constantly-expanding paper money system was beneficial to the French economy. They commissioned fancy reports and hired lofty ‘experts’ who testified how successful their paper money system was.

But the real results were obvious. The assignat experiment had triggered hyperinflation. The government had to impose strict price controls– which naturally led to shortages– and French peasants were once again rioting in the streets over the lack of bread.

This chaos continued throughout France’s revolutionary period until, finally, in the the year 1800, Napoleon created a new central bank to stabilize the economy and PREVENT inflation.

That mission hasn’t changed in more than two centuries; even to this day, the entire reason that central banks around the world even exist is to provide economic stability and prevent inflation.

They just always seem to forget about that second part. And perhaps nowhere is this more obvious than in the United States.

Even the official US government statistics show inflation at more than 7%. It’s been rising steadily for nearly a year.

Yet the Federal Reserve has consistently downplayed inflation. Whenever anyone brought up the risk of inflation back in early 2021, Fed officials would just gaslight them and insist that inflation did not exist.

By the summer of 2021 when inflation was obvious, the Fed changed its approach and started telling everyone that it was “transitory” and would go away.

With inflation accelerating into the end of 2021, the Fed changed its approach once again and told us that they might maybe possibly eventually do something to fight inflation.

Last week the Fed issued a statement saying that the economy has improved, and that “economic activity and employment have continued to strengthen”.

They cited the “strong labor market” and “an easing of supply constraints.”

This is all good news, and a clear signal that the Fed doesn’t need to prop up the economy with 0% interest rates any longer.

Yet then, despite acknowledging that inflation is “well above” their target goal of 2% (duh), “the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.”

Wow. So even though everything else in the economy looks fine, they’re STILL not yet going to lift a finger to do anything about inflation.

The Fed might as well say: “SUCK IT UP, AMERICA, WE’LL GET TO INFLATION WHEN WE’RE DAMN WELL READY.”

It’s important to point out that these all-seeing, all-knowing, all-powerful “experts” completely missed inflation. Precisely zero members of the Fed’s Open Market Committee predicted last year that the US would be suffering 7% inflation.