Areas of the West Midlands were hit by heavy snowfall at the start of the week, with winter wonderland scenes pictured across the region.

In contrast, New Year's Eve is set to be 'largely dry', with sunny spells throughout the day and temperatures reaching up to 5C.

The Met Office says it will be 'feeling cold' with light winds after a frosty start and there may be the 'odd wintry shower' this afternoon.

For the night's celebrations, which will look very different under the city's new Tier 4 restrictions, temperatures will drop to -4C.

It will remain dry, but there may be a 'few wintry showers in the north'.

West Midlands Roads said the gritting teams would be out to ensure the roads are safe as freezing temperatures set in. However, the advice for the new tier is to stay at home.

The Met Office forecast, as of 10am, read:

A frosty start with lingering fog patches. Largely dry throughout the day with sunny spells and the odd wintry shower in the afternoon. Feeling cold with light winds. Maximum temperature 5 °C.

Remaining largely dry with increasing cloud and perhaps a few wintry showers in the north. A cold night with a frost returning. Minimum temperature -4 °C.

New Year's Day (Friday, Jan 1) is expected to begin with 'cold and frost', with a maximum temperature of 5C.

There will be a few fog patches, according to the Met Office, but it will stay largely dry with the odd shower.

Revellers have been urged to show respect and not to gather for celebrations tonight after the city was plunged into Tier 4 from midnight (Dec 30).

Dave Thompson said New Year, traditionally a time of celebration, would be ‘very different’ and not to forget the 72,000 who died after contracting coronavirus this year.

The top cop tweeted: “This will be a very different #NewYear2021. Can I urge people not to congregate tomorrow night. We will not hesitate to fine for irresponsible acts.

“However...There are over 72,000 people to remember who didn’t make into 2021. Let’s show respect as we close 2020.”