These were the empty scenes in the centre of Birmingham today as dozens of non-essential shops were forced to close under the latest lockdown rules.

The Bullring was left deserted on New Year's Eve as the city, and swathes of the region, were plunged into Tier 4 restrictions from midnight in a bid to stop the spread of the new coronavirus strain.

The world's biggest Primark was among the many stores seen with its shutters down as it temporarily closed to shoppers. H&M vowed to 'be back soon' as it displayed closed signs on its frontage this morning.

In a stark comparison to the packed-out Bullring on Boxing Day, the escalators were completely empty for the first day of the new rules.

Some shops will continue to stay open, including supermarkets and chemists, while banks will also be operating into 2021.

Boots, Halifax, Holland and Barrett, Natwest, Savers, Simply Local, St Martins News, Tesco, Superdrug and Vision Express remained open in the city centre.

The full list can be found here.

The landmark shopping centre says it's open between 10am and 8pm today - but only for essential retail, delivery or takeaway from some restaurants and click and collect services.

Birmingham's coronavirus infection rate is currently 313.1 cases per 100,000 of the population, prompting Boris Johnson's decision to place the city into the highest tier.

The tier system will be reviewed by the Government on a fortnightly basis, with the next review due on January 13.

The factors which will determine the tiers includes:
• How quickly cases are falling or rising and what percentage of people tested are positive
• Case rates in the population, with particular focus in people aged over 60
• How well local NHS services can cope, including current and projected Covid bed occupancy and daily hospital admissions

What are the rules for Tier 4?

No household mixing, aside from support bubbbles.

Two people can meet in public outdoor spaces.

Non-essential stores must close except click and collect and delivery services.

Work from home unless you are unable to.

Do not interact with anybody outside your household or support bubble.

Funerals with up to 30 guests permitted.

Wakes can continue in groups of six.

Weddings of up to six can continue.

Stay at home and only travel for work, education or other legally permitted reasons.

You must not leave a tier 4 area.

You may exercise by yourself or with your household, or with ONE other person from another household.

You can visit care home residents in Covid-secure environments.

Stay at home as much as possible - except health appointments or exercise.