A stark warning about Worcestershire ’s coronavirus case rate has been given by the county’s public health chief as she explained why it has now been placed in Tier 3.

Covid-19 cases would ‘double in a fortnight’ if the county remained in Tier 2 according to Dr Kathryn Cobain, in response to the Government’s action placing Worcestershire in the ‘very high alert’ level – Tier 3. Details of the Tier 3 rules can be found here.

All Tier 2 areas were moved up at least one tier – with now all areas in the country in Tier 3 or 4, except for the Isles of Scilly, which remains in Tier 1.

In the West Midlands, Herefordshire – which had briefly been moved down to Tier 1, before going back to Tier 2 at the last review, joins Worcestershire in Tier 3, alongside Shropshire and Telford and Wrekin.

While all other areas in the region, Birmingham, the four Black Country boroughs – Dudley, Sandwell, Walsall and Wolverhampton, Coventry, Solihull, Staffordshire, Stoke and Warwickshire all being hiked up to the ‘Stay at Home’ Tier 4 level.

In Worcestershire Dr Kathryn Cobain, the Director of Public Health for the county said cases had risen 40 per cent in the county, which includes the older at risk age groups.

Dr Cobain said: “Sadly we have seen the numbers rising in Worcestershire over the past few weeks and particularly over the past few days across the whole of Worcestershire. We have seen a 40 per cent increase of Covid-19 diagnoses in the community.

“And we are seeing that go up in the over 60s as well and we are seeing that translate in to increased hospital admissions.

“We are in a position where our trajectory shows if we don’t do something now, cases in the county are likely to double within two weeks.

"With the increase in cases and with the new faster spreading variant being identified in areas of the country, these stricter measures are being brought into place to stop the spread of the virus.

“It won’t be easy for the residents of Worcestershire, but we can pull together to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases.

"It is up to us all to follow the new rules and to continue to follow social distancing guidelines, wear a face covering, wash our hands regularly and limit our travel and contacts.

"These remain the best ways to fight against the virus.”

The Government outlined its reasons for raising tier levels on Wednesday (December 30).

A from the Department of Health and Social Care said: “Between 18 and 24 December the weekly case rate in England rose to 402.6 per 100,000, a 32 per cent increase on the previous week.

“The NHS reports 14,915 patients have been admitted to hospital with COVID-19 in the past week, a 18 per cent increase on the week before.

“Evidence shows the new strain of COVID-19 is increasing in the South West, Midlands and parts of the North West.

“Infection rates have increased faster than expected in these areas where the new strain has been circulating and stronger measures are required to get the virus under control.

“Rates in the West Midlands have increased to 273.5 per 100,000, a 23 per cent increase on the previous week.

“Winter is always the most difficult time of year for the NHS and an increase in COVID-19 infections is followed closely by a rise in hospitalisations and, after a lag, an increase in deaths.

“It is vital everyone plays their part by following the regional tiered restrictions in their area to bring down infections, save lives and reduce pressures on the NHS this winter.