COVID Has Primarily Killed Those Close to Death Anyway

Most COVID Deaths Likely Due to Ventilator Malpractice

How to Use Prone Positioning at Home
• Lying on your right side

A Bounty Has Been Placed on Your Life
• The Front Line COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance's (FLCCC's) prevention and early at-home treatment protocol. They also have an in-hospital protocol and long-term management guidance for long-haul COVID-19 syndrome. You can find a listing of doctors who can prescribe ivermectin and other necessary medicines on the FLCCC website

Early on in the COVID pandemic, people suspected that the deaths attributed to the infection were exaggerated. There was plenty of evidence for this. For starters, hospitals were instructed and incentivized to mark any patient who had a positive COVID test and subsequently died within a certain time period as a COVID death.At the same time, we knew that the PCR test was unreliable, producing inordinate amounts of false positives. Now, the truth is finally starting to come out and, as suspected, the actual death toll is vastly lower than we were led to believe.In the video above, Dr. John Campbell reviews recent data released by the U.K. government in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. They show that the number of deaths during 2020 in England and Wales, where COVID-19 was the sole cause of death, was 9,400. Of those, 7,851 were aged 65 and older. The median age of death was 81.5 years.During the first quarter of 2021, there were 6,483 deaths where COVID-19 was the sole cause of death, again with the vast majority, 4,923, occurring in seniors over 65.A total of 346 died from COVID-19 alone during the second quarter of 2021, and in the third quarter, the COVID death toll was 1,142. Again, these are people with no other underlying conditions that might have caused their death.So, in all, for the 21 months covering January 2020 through September 2021, the total COVID-19 death toll in England and Wales was 17,371 — a far cry from what's been reported. As of the end of September 2021, the U.K. government reported there were 137,133 deaths within 28 days of a positive test, and these deaths were therefore all counted as "COVID deaths."In a January 19, 2022, press conference, U.K. health secretary Sajid Javid admitted that the daily government figures are unreliable as people have been and continue to die from conditions unrelated to COVID-19,Campbell also points out that of the 17,371 people who had COVID-19 as the sole cause of death, 13,597 were 65 or older.Compare that to the projected life expectancy in the U.K., which is 79 for men and 82.9 for women.Campbell then goes on to review data on excess deaths from cancer. Estimates suggest there have been an extra 50,000 cancer deaths over the past 18 months — deaths that normally would not have occurred. Delayed diagnosis and inability to receive proper treatment due to COVID restrictions are thought to be primary reasons for this.As noted by Campbell, when we're looking at excess deaths, we really need to take things like age of death into account. COVID-19, apparently, killed mostly people who were close to the end of life expectancy anyway, so the loss of quality life years isn't particularly significant.That needs to be weighed against the deaths of people in their 30s, 40s and 50s who have died from untreated cancer and other chronic diseases, thanks to COVID restrictions.In the U.S., data suggest a similar pattern of exaggerated COVID death statistics. Most recently, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Dr. Rochelle Walensky cited researchshowing that 77.8% of people who had received the COVID jab yet died from/with COVID"So, really, these are people who were unwell to begin with," Walensky said.For example, a 2020 studyfound 88% of hospitalized COVID patients in New York City had two or more comorbidities, 6.3% had one underlying health condition and 6.1% had none. At that time, there were no COVID jabs available.Similarly, in late August 2020, the CDC published data showing only 6% of the total death count had COVID-19 listed as the sole cause of death. The remaining 94% had had an average of 2.6 comorbidities or preexisting health conditions that contributed to their deaths.So, yes, COVID is a lethal risk only for the sickest among us, just as Walensky said, but that's true whether you're "vaccinated" or not.In addition to the issue of whether people die "from" COVID or "with" a SARS-CoV-2 positive test,By early April 2020, doctors warned that putting COVID-19 patients on mechanical ventilation increased their risk of death.One investigation showed a staggering 80% of COVID-19 patients in New York City who were placed on ventilators died,causing some doctors to question their use. U.K. data put that figure at 66% and a small study in Wuhan found 86% of ventilated patients died.In an April 8, 2020, article, STAT News reported:At the time, emergency room physician Dr. Cameron Kyle-Sidell argued that patients' symptoms had more in common with altitude sickness than pneumonia.Similarly, a paperby critical care Drs. Luciano Gattinoni and John J. Marini described two different types of COVID-19 presentations, which they refer to as Type L and Type H. While one benefited from mechanical ventilation, the other did not.Despite that, putting COVID patients on mechanical ventilation is "standard of care" for COVID across the U.S. to this day. Without doubt, most of the early COVID patients were killed from ventilator malpractice, and patients continue to be killed — not from COVID but from harmful treatments.Mechanical ventilation can easily damage the lungs as it's pushing air into the lungs with force.HBOT also improves mitochondrial function, helps with detoxification, inhibits and controls inflammation and optimizes your body's innate healing capacity.Doctors have also had excellent results using high-flow nasal cannulas in lieu of ventilators. As noted in an April 2020 press release from doctors at UChicago Medicine:You can also use prone positioning at home if you struggle with a cough or have trouble breathing. If you're struggling to breathe, you should seek emergency medical care. However, in cases of cough or mild shortness of breath being treated at home, try to avoid spending a lot of time lying flat on your back.Guidelines from Elmhurst Hospital suggest "laying [sic] on your stomach and in different positions will help your body to get air into all areas of your lung." The guidelines recommend changing your position every 30 minutes to two hours, including:This is a simple way to potentially help ease breathing difficulties at home. If you or a loved one is hospitalized, this technique can be used there too.You might wonder why doctors and hospital administrators insist on using treatments known to be ineffective at best and deadly at worst, while stubbornly refusing to administer anything that has been shown to work, be it intravenous vitamin C, hydroxychloroquine and zinc, ivermectin or corticosteroids.The most likely answer is because they're protecting their bottom line. In the U.S., hospitals not only risk losing federal funding if they administer these treatments,Hospitals receive payments for:In short, hospitals are doing whatever they want with patients, and they have every incentive to maltreat them, and no incentive to give them treatments other than that dictated to them by the National Institutes of Health.As reported by Citizens Journal,the U.S. government actually pays hospitals a "bonus" on the entire hospital bill if they use remdesivir, a drug shown to cause severe organ damage. Even coroners are given bonuses for every COVID-19 death."What does this mean for your health and safety as a patient in the hospital?" Citizens Journal asks.Without mincing words, it means your health is in severe jeopardy. Citizen Journal likens government-directed COVID treatments to a bounty placed on your life, where payouts are tied to your decline, not your recovery.Considering the uncertainties around diagnosis, it's best to treat any cold or flu-like symptoms early. At first signs of symptoms, start treatment. Perhaps it's the common cold or a regular influenza, maybe it's the much milder Omicron, but since it's hard to tell, your best bet is to treat symptoms as you would treat earlier forms of COVID.Considering how contagious Omicron is, chances are you're going to get it, so buy what you'll need now, so you have it on hand if/when symptoms arise. And, remember, this applies for those who have gotten the jab as well, since you're just as likely to get infected — and perhaps even more so. Early treatment protocols with demonstrated effectiveness include:Based on my review of these protocols, I've developed a summary of the treatment specifics I believe are the easiest and most effective.