As everyone faces difficult times, the company which deals with the fulfillment of book sales on behalf of Global Research is no longer able to provide its services. We are unfortunately suspending the sale of print books until further notice.

We will be contacting and refunding readers who have purchased our books in print format. Meanwhile, PDF versions are still available for purchase. We hope to be able to resolve this matter as soon as possible. Our apologies for the inconvenience.

Thank you for your valuable support.

The Blackwater Is in Donbass with the Azov Battalion

According to reports from the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, obscured by our mainstream which only talks about the Russian deployment, Ukrainian Army and National Guard units, amounting to about 150 thousand men, are positioned here.

Video: Has Justin Trudeau Been Duly Vaccinated? Registered Nurse Expresses Doubt on Authenticity of Trudeau’s Vaccine Jab

In recent developments, Justin Trudeau has stated that unvaccinated cross border truck drivers “may pose a risk of transmitting COVID-19 to the general public”. What absolute nonsense. Truck drivers for the most part stay in their truck, deliver the commodities and have limited contact with people.

The Philosophy of “Venceremos!”, We Shall Overcome: Canadian Freedom Convoy against Covid-19 Mandates

Remember, freedom doesn’t come for free. Freedom is a constant movement of protecting our freedom. We may call it the continuous pursuit of Happiness through the philosophy of Venceremos – in action.

“Disgust and Disbelief” according to Trudeau. Millions of Canadians from coast to coast have supported and continue to support the Freedom Convoy 2022. There was no evidence of racism, hatred and violence by protesters, abuse against fellow citizens as claimed by the Prime Minister.

In a recent statement, the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs stated that the current gas tariff per cubic meter, valued at 52.7 hryvnia, will prevent, before the end of January, Ukrainian industrial production (which is dependent on gas) from make it profitable.

Nova Scotia Moves Quickly Using Emergency Declaration to Ban Truck Convoys and Highway Cheering, $10,000 Fine for Cheering on Roadway

Apparently, the Canadian province of Nova Scotia is taking proactive steps {link} to ensure their government officials are not subjected to any protests similar to what’s happening in Ottawa or other regions.

US Army Tour with Hebron Settler-extremist Legitimizes Occupation of Palestine and Signals Biden’s Collapse

A recent US military visit to the illegal Jewish settlement in occupied Hebron shows that the Biden administration is accepting the one-Jewish-state reality. The tour’s host was settler Noam Arnon – who has called Jewish terrorists “heroes”.

“Human Augmentation – The Dawn of a New Paradigm”: Analysis by Dr. Robert Malone

The document goes on to write that the role of ethics and public perception in the use of human augmentation are not the deciding factors in developing human augmentation. The general consensus of the report is that human augmentation is critical for national security for the future development of warfare.

We Vaccinated 4 Billion People… and You’ll Never Believe What Happened Next

Daily Covid infections worldwide since the epidemic began, read the article.

America Is Reaping What It Sowed in Ukraine

U.S. allies do not all support the current U.S. policy. Germany is wisely refusing to funnel more weapons into Ukraine, in keeping with its long-standing policy of not sending weapons into conflict zones.

Is It Already Too Late to Say Goodbye? Jonathan Cook

Journalists like me are part of an experiment – in a new, more democratised media landscape. We have developed new reader-funded models so that we can break free of the media corporations, which until now ensured billionaires and the state controlled the flow of information in one direction only: to speak down to us.