The Trucker Freedom Convoy to Ottawa Canada entered its third day today, as it was announced that Justin Trudeau had tested positive for COVID-19, even though he has received 3 COVID-19 vaccines.

That did not stop him from addressing the public online from an undisclosed location, and lying to the world about the Trucker Freedom Convoy, characterizing them as criminals.

Over the past few days, Canadians were shocked, and frankly disgusted by the behavior displayed by some people protesting in our nation’s capital. There is no place in our country for threats, violence, or hatred. So to those responsible for this behavior, it needs to stop. The way out of this pandemic is getting vaccinated, it’s listening to public health advice, and the best way to get out of this pandemic…is to show we understand the importance of following science, facts, and health experts.

He was asked why he was not attending the rally in Ottawa, and he replied that he only attends rallies where he agrees with “the goals” of the rally, like Black Lives Matter rallies.

MPP Randy Hiller called Trudeau a “liar” stating that his constituents all supported the truckers, and that there was unity.

There were several speakers downtown throughout the day, and at one point I listed to Dr. Byram Bridle address the crowd. Dr. Bridle has been featured here at Health Impact News previously, as one of the whistleblower doctors who have exposed the fraud in the COVID-19 vaccines.

He brought his Down Syndrome son with him, and explained that they had attended a function on their way to the rally that was for special needs children, but his son had to be segregated at the event because he refuses to give a COVID-19 vaccine to his son and is unvaccinated.

I have not seen his address to the crowd recorded anywhere yet, but here is an interview he gave later.

There were still many truckers trying to enter the city today, and reportedly more on the way. I did not see any sign of violence as I checked into the live streaming throughout the day.

The corporate media continues to portray the protesters as “hateful” people carrying “confederate flags” and “Nazi” signs.

But the only person found like that was clearly identified as a “provocateur” and asked to leave.

There have also been reports that emergency vehicles are being prevented from getting to hospitals, but no film footage of such that I saw.

Those on the ground have continually stated that they are leaving lanes open for emergency vehicles to get through.

Here is the livestream from RedPilling The Masses.

Understand the Times We are Currently Living Through

Identifying the Luciferian Globalists Implementing the New World Order – Who are the “Jews”?

Insider Exposes Freemasonry as the World’s Oldest Secret Religion and the Luciferian Plans for The New World Order

One in Christ: Abolishing Discrimination and Class Warfare in the Messianic New World Order

Nationalism and the Ten Commandments – Patriotism or Idolatry? “Liberty” or Slavery?

The Most Important Truth about the Coming “New World Order” Almost Nobody is Discussing

The Seal and Mark of God is Far More Important than the “Mark of the Beast” – Are You Prepared for What’s Coming?

To “Save” America will the Foundation of the Corporate American Christian Church Need to be Destroyed?

The Satanic Roots to Modern Medicine – The Mark of the Beast?

Medicine: Idolatry in the Twenty First Century – 6-Year-Old Article More Relevant Today than the Day it was Written

Having problems receiving our newsletters? See:

How to Beat Internet Censorship and Create Your Own Newsfeed

We Are Now on Minds.com, MeWe, and Telegram. Video channel at Bitchute.

If our website is seized and shut down, find us on Minds.com, MeWe, and Telegram, as well as Bitchute for further instructions about where to find us.

If you use the TOR Onion browser, here are the links and corresponding URLs to use in the TOR browser to find us on the Dark Web: Health Impact News, Vaccine Impact, Medical Kidnap, Created4Health, CoconutOil.com.