COVID-19 has been raging worldwide for more than two years, but according to China’s pandemic death statistics, there have been only two deaths in a year and a half since May 2020.

A retired Beijing military doctor was shocked and said that this was impossible and did not match the information she had seen.

According to the pandemic report on the official website of China’s National Health Commission, by the end of May 16th, 2020, the death toll from the pandemic was 4,634, and a total of 82,947 confirmed cases were reported. From then to January 13th, 2021, no new deaths due to Covid-19 were reported.

On January 13th, 2021, ​​the National Health Commission announced one death in Hebei, bringing the death toll to 4,635.

On January 25th, 2021, there was another case in Jilin, and the data was updated to 4,636. Since then, after 12 months, Chinese officials have not announced any death cases due to COVID-19.

According to the official website of China’s National Health Commission, by the end of January 26th, 2022, reports from 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities) and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps show that the number of deaths was 4,636 cases, with a total of 105,811 confirmed cases reported.

Let’s compare the pandemic data in 2021 from Hong Kong and Taiwan.

In the whole year of 2021, there were 15,243 confirmed cases and two deaths in mainland China, with a mortality rate of 0.01312 percent of confirmed cases; Hong Kong has 3,803 confirmed cases and 65 deaths, with a death rate of 1.7092 percent; Taiwan has 16,230 confirmed cases and 843 deaths, with a death rate of 5.194 percent.

Last year, the death rate in mainland China was 130 times lower than that of Hong Kong and 396 times lower than that of Taiwan.

A reporter from a Chinese media Da Ji Yuan called the National Health Commission of the mainland to ask why Xi’an and other places are still closed while the death rate is low, but the other party left the phone alone and did not answer.

The reporter continued to call the Media Liaison Office of the Joint Prevention and Control Agency of the State Council for more information. Still, they emphasized that they were not responsible for data issues and could not answer them because “every work has different departments.”

A retired military doctor in Beijing’s Haidian district, who asked to remain anonymous, told Da Ji Yuan that Beijing is now focusing on the pandemic. As a result, the community has to take COVID tests every day.

The anonymous doctor then told reporters that she still did not believe all the data that came from the official website of China’s National Health Commission.

She later confirmed with reporters that it was impossible to have two deaths because some severe cases could not be cured.

Li Longteng, former deputy director of the Department of Health of the Executive Yuan of Taiwan, said in an interview that the death rate of the pandemic was 6 percent at the beginning and then gradually decreased to a death rate of about 3 percent.

He said it was a bit exaggerated if only one person died out of more than 10,000 in mainland China.

Japanese media veteran Akio Yabata told Da Ji Yuan that all the statistics of electronic surveillance by the Chinese regime, including the unemployment rate and pandemic reports, are never accurate.

He said that China’s figures were always subject to adjustments, so verifying data accuracy without supervision was challenging.

Yaita also cited SARS in 2003 as an example. Then, although the Chinese authorities reported no patients in the hospital when the WHO came to investigate, they put patients in an ambulance and drove around Beijing to avoid inspections.

Dr. Zhang, a member of the Beijing judiciary, told Da Ji Yuan that this kind of exaggeration was aimed at satisfying the ambition of the system and the Chinese regime’s so-called institutional advantages. It completely ignored any essential rationality and logic.

He quoted Goebbels, the chief Nazi propagandist, saying, “A lie repeated a thousand times becomes the truth.” Therefore, the Chinese regime often tells lies and fools the public to retain the legitimacy of its rule and maintain the validity of its anti-epidemic policy.