At this point in our nation’s history, certain acceptances are needed in order to accurately identify the current status of our situation.
• 
• The Legislative Branch (SSCI) created the Intelligence State, the Fourth Branch of superseding government.
• The Executive Branch (FBI, DOJ, NSA) control the Fourth Branch of superseding government.
• The Judicial Branch (FISA Court) is the facilitating approval apparatus for the Fourth Branch.

With that empirical and well documented reality in place, all three branches of U.S. government work in unison. Who or what can intervene to stop the Fourth Branch of government from operating unilaterally?

This is the serious question that no one ever discusses.

The FISA Court is the private, secret, unchecked judicial system authorizing the power for the Intelligence State.

As a result, we continue to see NSA reports showing the unconstitutional surveillance of the American people continuing without consequence [NSA Release Here].

This is the 5th straight year where the National Security Agency (NSA) produces a document admitting their metadata capturing system, the system that captures all electronic communication of every single American and puts it into a stored database, is continually used as a research library for unnamed federal agents to scour (without search warrants) for the private documents of American citizens.

At this point, the NSA admission without consequence is simply just another Tuesday, it literally doesn’t even make the headlines anymore.

The executive summary does, however, include the NSA introducing the latest admissions about violating the 4th amendment right of Americans, while bragging about how their diversity hiring efforts have paid off.

At least we know now the genderless, pronoun specific eyeballs looking at our emails, phone calls, text messages, and listening to your instructions to Alexa in your connected home office, are compliant with the latest diversity quota amid the surveillance operations headquarters.

As the NSA states in their opening to the congressional branch that authorizes their existence:

“I would call the reader’s attention to a new section in this semiannual report outlining the outstanding work of the OIG’s Diversity and Engagement Committee (DEC). The DEC, which we set up shortly after I joined the OIG, conducts and coordinates a wide range of programming, training, and activities that reflect this office’s commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEI&A), and helps to ensure a full range of developmental opportunities for everyone on our team – all of which makes our work better and is, quite simply, the right thing to do for our people.”

So, the nonbinary, green haired on Tuesday, twenty-something transexual with tattoos and facial piercing, is skimming the emails of James O’Keefe, while sipping soy lattes and munching avocado toast, with government purchased sustainable algae cakes, at the local Starbucks with the NSA portal open and super-fast wifi. Perfect. Way to go NSA-IG Robert Storch. At least we know you have your priorities in order.

The semi-annual report to the legislative branch does admit it is challenging for the NSA to monitor its “Rules-Based Targeting (RBT) controls” in order to stop “critical control gaps” which allow the newly hired NSA operators to “target selectors to locations that are prohibited by applicable NSA signals intelligence (SIGINT) collection authorities.”

Put another way, in English terms, the genderless NSA analysts keep searching for stuff they shouldn’t be allowed to search for. But hey, they’re working on it… just like they were working on it last year, and, well, the year before, and the year before, and the year before and, well, you get the point.

Using NSA terminology, the most twisted use of language to avoid ordinary understanding, the agency says:

“Another IO evaluation examined whether NSA analysts were appropriately documenting the foreign intelligence purpose and using approved U.S. person (USP) identifiers as query terms against Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Section 702 data and in accordance with applicable query procedures. The evaluation revealed several issues that, if not addressed, have the potential to impact the effectiveness of the Agency’s internal controls used to protect the civil liberties and privacy rights of USPs.

Specifically, as described in the Intelligence Oversight section of this report, the OIG’s findings included that USP queries performed against FISA Section 702 data did not always follow NSA procedural and policy requirements, that some selector information within NSA’s selector management tool was not documented with consistency, and that a NSA query tool did not prevent certain queries containing known USP selectors from processing.”

Put in common terms, Jaquina’s cousin Xenatra didn’t have enough rent money and asked her bestie in the NSA to dig up some dirt on her landlord. Jaquina gives Xenatra the details of the landlord’s Only Fans account, and subsequently the rent was deferred for the month. Sister’s gotchu, peace – out, y’all. A’ight den, you feelin’ me?

The NSA accepts this might reflect poorly upon the agency, but they promise to do better.

The NSA also notes their “work from home” program has been a little problematic. It appears the NSA did a few spot checks of the analysts at home when logged into the NSA portal, and well, things were not exactly as professional as the NSA executive administrators would have liked. As a result:

[…] “We have integrated the option to conduct physical, virtual, or hybrid inspections in our planning for future inspections. The Cyberspace Workforce Improvement Program advisory memorandum highlighted the need for the Agency to formally identify a comprehensive list of work roles required to be certified in accordance with the Department of Defense (DoD) Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.”

Apparently, the United States Department of Defense (DoD) isn’t quite comfortable with D’Quasario Chavez monitoring the internal communications of the U.S. NATO alliance, while bong hittin’ with the crew in his living room. Future “virtual” inspections for analysts working from home with Top-Secret Security Clearances will be modified accordingly.

You can read the full NSA report HERE.

…The NSA is counting on it.