The DVSA is set to close Forest Hills Driving Test Centre in Forest Hills Drive on April 10.

After April 10, students will have to take their test at the Southampton Maybush test centre, which is five miles from Forest Hills.

A Southampton driving instructor, who wished to remain anonoymous said: “I reflect back at my career over the past 22 years and can only remember one or two occasions when I have been short of pupils to teach.

“My diary is currently full until the end of March. I spend more time saying ‘sorry I can’t help you until three to four months ahead’.

“This situation is not specific to me, but reflects the vast majority of driving instructors in Southampton. Therefore the demand is far greater than the current instructor numbers.

“Why close a test centre when demand suggests that you could open a third test centre?”

The DVSA has said it needs to save cash and the same service is available at Southampton Maybush.

A Thornhill driving instructor, who did not want to be named, said: “It’s a totally different area and I totally disagree with what the DVSA have said, which is along the lines of students should be able to drive anywhere, so it shouldn’t matter. But I disagree with that.

“When we do our mock tests, we make students familiar with what they might come up against.

“A local example is Woodmill Lane. You know that if the traffic lights are off, it’s three cars through each way. But if you don’t know that, you could block it.

“Local knowledge does help, especially when somebody is an inexperienced driver.

“This is giving those who live in the Forest Hills area a real disadvantage. We can work with it, but it’s going to make it more difficult for students to pass their tests. On top of that, it’s not very good for the environment as you’re using more fuel for travelling distance.

“Going to Millbrook for the test will make it a lot more difficult, especially with things such as the dual carriageway and even driving through town.”

In response, the DVSA said it was “vital” that learners were prepared to drive safely on all types of road before taking their test, rather than simply learning driving test centre routes.

A spokesperson said: “We understand this change may cause an inconvenience for some, but we have worked hard to ensure that there is no change in the number of tests provided to local candidates, and no tests were lost as a result of the closure.”

Driving examiners will be re-deployed to other surrounding centres, the DVSA said.