POLICE are investigating a spate of burglaries that took place at commercial premises in the Woolston area of Southampton last weekend.

At least six properties were targeted including a charity shop, where several silver rings and rare antique coins were among items stolen.

Police are appealing for witnesses following the break-ins, which began on Saturday night and continued in the early hours of Sunday.

They began at 11pm on Saturday, when a nail gun worth £450 was stolen from Jewsons builders' merchants in St Anne's Road.

At 11.36pm a member of the public noticed the front window of Woolston Barbers in The Colonnade, Bridge Road, had been smashed.

Four hair clippers and the contents of the till, about £130, were stolen after a brick was used to gain entry.

At around 12.35am on Sunday police attended the Carers Together charity shop in Victoria Road, where a window of the main door was broken to gain entry.

Several silver rings and rare antique coins were among items stolen.

At 1.08am police were flagged down by a member of the public outside Annie’s café in Portsmouth Road, where the door window was smashed to gain entry and money taken from the till. An attempt was made to remove the safe.

At around the same time officers attended the Foundation of Light, Spirituality and Arts in Victoria Road, where a window was damaged but nothing stolen.

Shortly after 2.12am police attended The Cryshop in Victoria Road, where a window had also been damaged but nothing taken.

Inspector Charlie Ilderton, of the Southampton East Neighbourhood Policing Team, said: “This incident may have caused concern among businesses in Woolston and I would like to reassure them we are working hard to find the person responsible.

“We would urge anyone who saw what happened, or may have dash cam or CCTV footage taken in the area at the times mentioned, to please contact us.”

Anyone with information can call police on 101 quoting 44220040159. Alternatively they can call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.