MULTI-MILLION pound plans to revamp a Southampton sports complex have been backed by city residents.

Over 90 per cent of respondents have said they agree with news plans for Southampton Outdoor Sports Centre.

A total of £16.85 million has been set aside by the council for new changing rooms, a gym, cafe and new indoor tennis and netball courts.

It forms a scheme to bring the almost 100 year-old facility up to date.

Residents did however suggest possible changes to the scheme that are now due to be considered as an outline planning application for the scheme is drawn up.
• The changes at Southampton Outdoor Sports Centre

Indicative images of the plans for Southampton Outdoor Sports Centre

Suggestions from the consultation included a new indoor sports hall as well as disabled access for changing rooms.

Others raised concerns about how much the scheme is going to cost, adding that there are already enough tennis facilities across the city.

At a cabinet meeting on Monday, civic chiefs are due to consider the results of the 12-week consultation and are then expected to agree a draft masterplan of the improvements.

Speaking to the Echo, council finance boss, Cllr John Hannides said some work could possibly start later this year.

However, the majority of the work is expected to take place in 2023.

Indicative images of the plans for Southampton Outdoor Sports Centre

He added that the sports centre is a “jewel in the crown” for the city and is “extremely exciting for Southampton”.

“This will be the single largest investment in the sports centre since it was first constructed.

“It is about bringing the sports centre into the 21st century.

“We were delighted with the level of public engagement.

“From our perspective the feedback was very helpful.

“Before any decisions are put together the idea is to see to what extent we can take on board as many suggestions as possible.”

The centre that was originally opened in 1938 was used as a temporary military base ahead of D-day invasions.

The work at the site is expected to enhance its offer for both competitive sports and leisure users.

Leader of the Labour opposition, Cllr Satvir Kaur, said that she is “really pleased that Labour’s plan for the redevelopment of the Outdoor Sport Centre is moving forward.

“Improving our city’s leisure offer should be a key priority coming out of the pandemic,” she said.

“We worked hard to ensure local communities, clubs and users, played an active role in developing these plans.

“I think it’s right however to take on board specific suggestions to make it more accessible, especially for disabled users.”