PEOPLE across Southampton have voiced their backing for the City of Culture 2025 bid as a flavour of the top secret plans are today revealed.

If the city is successful in winning the culture crown three days of festivities will see tens of thousands of people celebrate in May 2025.

Vessels will be invited from around the world to join a floating stage - with a giant circus show from creative producers Crying Out Loud.

This will run alongside circus company Gratte Ciel to present a high-flying vision above Weston Shore.

The night sky will be transformed into a giant canvas, with projections, drones and lasers across rooftops and landmarks including tower blocks and monuments.

On Monday night the Bargate was illuminated red ahead of the submission deadline today with passers-by stopping to admire the display and speak out in support.

The lights of Southampton’s historic Bargate are switched on as the city’s bid for UK City of Culture 2025 is submitted.

Southampton waitress, Jo Saunders, 32, was walking through the city centre with three of her children. She said: “I’m definitely excited, and I am hoping we do win it.”

Many are excited about how winning the culture crown could benefit the city.

Susan Long, 56, from Peartree, said: “It would be amazing for Southampton to be the City of Culture.
• Into the last eight! Southampton named as UK City of Culture 2025 finalist
• Five places that prove Southampton should be crowned the next UK City of Culture

“This would give people even more reason to visit the city if we were to win and it would be so good for all our small businesses and shops to have more footfall - especially after the damage that lockdowns have done to them.

“I am really hopeful that we pull through.”

Hampshire Homes business owner, Ian Wallace, 59, from Botley, said being named on the longlist last October is proof of people’s efforts.

Mr Wallace said: “There is a lot of effort and that has to come from passionate people, and I think the passion brings this to life.”

The lights of Southampton’s historic Bargate are switched on as the city’s bid for UK City of Culture 2025 is submitted. Anthony Upton _ PA Wire

Among the festivities planned if the bid is successful, there will be the opportunity to get out onto the water as part of a community day in partnership with Southampton’s International Boat Show.

This will enable access for communities to try out sailing, paddleboarding, rowing, kayaking and open water swimming.

The celebrations will not stop there as these events will be followed by year-long activities on the water, linking rivers across the world and showcasing local festivals to open up access and engagement.

As part of the plans, pubs, shops, and homes will be used as cultural venues. Lakbir Singh, head of special projects at the India Business Group, said: “Winning will help areas that are deprived and bring around change and add value to young people’s lives.

“We have come together as a city in a positive way and I have already seen change.

“It’s all about future-proofing for the future generations, that’s what I find really appealing.

Bid ambassador Craig David MBE said: “I’m so proud of the city I grew up in and love.

“For me and for so many, Southampton has always been a city of culture, innovation and sport and to get a platform to show the rest of the world what we already know would be so exciting.”