As Southampton bids for City of Culture status, there is renewed interest in the city’s heritage and looking around the modern city we see evidence of our rich past in our historic buildings and artefacts. The story of how these came about and their creators is a fascinating one and tells us a great deal about our historic city.

William the Conqueror died in 1083 and was succeeded by his eldest son William II known as William Rufus who was killed in a hunting accident in the New Forest in August 1100. The location is marked by the famous Rufus Stone.

This was a pivotal point in our history as, following bloodshed both in Normandy and England involving his surviving brothers, Rufus was eventually succeeded by his younger brother Henry I.

Henry I was devoted to his son, also called William, who he anticipated would succeed him as king. This was not to be, for having settled troubles in Normandy in 1120 Henry sailed for Southampton. His son William followed later in The White Ship which struck rocks and sank after leaving Barfleur near Cherbourg with all lives lost except that of a local butcher.

Meanwhile Henry I waited in Southampton for his favourite son. It was several days before he was told of the tragedy and he was distraught.

In 1124 Henry I granted two parcels of land at Portswood by the Itchen to establish the Priory of St Denys and in its charter Henry declared its foundation being for the health of his soul and the souls of his father and mother, his wife and William his son. The Priory of St Denys was to play an important part in the religious affairs of the town.

We also have to thank Henry I for is his commissioning of Robert Wace to chronicle the early years of the Norman Conquest for it is thanks to Wace that we have a very good description of what the busy and bustling port of Southampton was like at that time.

In describing Southampton, Wace wrote about the preparing of many ships and troops with ships beached and being launched plus many ships moored and anchored. He wrote:

Ships being pegged and nailed together,

Gangplanks put over the sides and ships loaded,

And friends calling out one to another.

With the loss of his son William, Henry I with the backing of his noblemen named his daughter, Empress Matilda, as his successor.

On his death they ignored his instructions and colluded with Henri De Blois, the Bishop of Winchester, by crowning Stephen King at Winchester. Henri de Blois is known for his gift to Southampton of the beautiful Tournai marble font in St Michael’s Church.

Matilda eventually gained support for her royal claim and Henri de Blois now championed her cause declaring her “England’s Lady”. The civil unrest that ensued was resolved when Stephen agreed to Matilda’s son Henry, Count of Anjou, succeeding him as King.

Henry II was crowned in 1154 at Westminster Abbey.

He had married Eleanor of Aquitaine two years earlier and as a consequence this royal couple’s domain included England, most of Wales, the eastern half of Ireland and the western half of France down to the Spanish border. It later included Brittany and parts of Scotland.

Southampton was Henry II’s favoured port and he instructed all wines to be imported through the town which he had reinforced with a large gateway, the Bargate, as well as a Royal Castle. It is said that Bordeaux stonemasons came to Southampton to construct the many merchant’s houses complete with their stone wine vaults. Consequently Southampton has more wine vaults than any other British town or city.

Henry II’s son King John commanded the town to be enclosed by stone walls which today are the third-longest existing and recognised as the most interesting and important medieval walls in the country.