The GCSE system needs to be overhauled and examinations for 16-year-olds scrapped, a new report argues.

A review of the GCSE system by the Independent Assessment Commission (IAC) says pupils should have opportunities to demonstrate their skills up to the age of 19 rather than at a fixed point in time at the age of 16.

“Students should have opportunities to demonstrate achievements when ready”, throughout their schooling from age 14 to 19, the review adds.

It says that “fundamental changes” are needed to England’s exam system. While GCSEs could remain part of the system, it argues that “arbitrary” assessment at age 16 should be scrapped.

Calls for new testing system in English schools

Professor Louise Hayward, chair of the IAC, said that it was “beyond doubt” that the current exams system was “failing its own test” to provide an assessment system that served pupils, society and the economy “sufficiently”.

“The IAC report identifies inequalities deeply ingrained in a system and which has to change if there is to be greater educational equality,” she added.

“We need a system that helps every young person to progress to college, employment or university with qualifications that recognise their achievements and the capabilities they need to succeed in the challenging times that lie ahead.

“Currently, too many young people feel that they are denied opportunities because their time at school has not been properly recognised – this is not good for them, nor is it good for their future employers, our economy and society.”

Geoff Barton, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said: Many people in education feel that our current system of GCSEs is an anachronism which harks back to an era when large numbers of young people left school at 16 rather than generally going on to further education and training as they do now.”

Mr Barton said that the Government had “doubled down on this anachronism” through “making the current iteration of GCSEs rather like old-fashioned O-levels”.

A Department for Education spokesperson said: “Exams are the best and fairest form of assessing what students know and can do, and ensure young people leave school or college prepared for the workplace and higher study.

“Our reformed GCSEs rigorously assess the knowledge acquired by pupils and are in line with expected standards in countries with high-performing education systems.”