A CONSULTATION has been launched after plans to rebuild a fire station that "needs urgent repair" were unveiled.

Southampton residents are invited to give their opinions on the proposals for Redbridge Fire Station.

An online public consultation went live yesterday (Tuesday February 1), and showcases the new purpose-built facility to provide better working and training facilities for firefighters and support staff.

Mark Chapman, Fire Brigades Union regional secretary for Southern region, said: "Redbridge fire station needs urgent repair, so we are pleased to see that it will be rebuilt.

"It is vital that there’s good engagement with firefighters throughout the process, and particularly during the design stage of the rebuild. It is important that plans allows for firefighters to decontaminate properly after fires.

"Allowing sufficient space and facilities for decontamination significantly reduces the risk of cancer and other diseases, which are prevalent amongst firefighters."

Ahead of the planning application, Hampshire and Isle of Wight Fire and Rescue Service has shared its vision for the new station.

This will also be a chance for people who live and work nearby to provide feedback on the scheme after viewing design drawings and site maps.

Chairman of Hampshire and Isle of Wight Fire and Rescue Authority, Councillor Rhydian Vaughan, said: “Redbridge Fire Station is one of the oldest buildings owned by the Authority and costs to maintain and operate the site are increasing.

“This is an excellent opportunity to create a purpose-built fire station for firefighters and the local community.”

As well as an appliance bay for three vehicles, the new three-storey station would feature separate clean and dirty zones for managing contamination, a dedicated gym for colleagues and improved training facilities.

The design also includes room for blue light partners - plus space for a retail unit to generate income.

Redbridge’s operational crew would stay on-site throughout building work, moving into a temporary facility to avoid any impact on response during construction.

Alan Smedley, programme lead for contractor partner Morgan Sindall Construction, added: “As well as providing a modern, fit for purpose new fire station for HIWFRS to ensure continued service for the local area, the project will promote a number of apprenticeship and job opportunities for local people, providing a positive legacy for the local community.”

The plans form an important part of the fire service’s ambitious Station Investment Programme.

Planning permission has already been granted for a new station in Bishop’s Waltham, with the town’s firefighters moving into a temporary home this month while building work is carried out at the site of the existing station in Lower Lane.

The public consultation for Redbridge will run from Tuesday February 1 until Tuesday February 15.

Details can be viewed at redbridgefirestation.vailwilliams.com.