The party's 2014 White Paper for Independence stated they wanted to work towards establishing 15,000 regular and 5,000 reserve personnel in the decade following a split from the rest of the UK. Expenditure with industry and commerce in Scotland in 2020/21 was £1.989 billion, according to newly-released figures from the Ministry of Defence. In comparison throughout the UK, it was £20.5billion, but this spend is equal to £360 per person in Scotland compared to £310 for the whole of Britain.

But it doesn't stop there, with Scots benefiting from a number of defence advantages. These include Scottish town Lossiemouth seeing its ranks surge by around 500 in preparation for the arrival of the E-7 Wedgetail, Described by Boeing as "the world's most advanced, capable and reliable Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C)". Scottish shipbuilding is also set to receive a significant boost with UK ministers placing orders for eight Type 26 frigates from BAE Systems at Scottish district Govan - home to the Glasgow Science Centre - and five Type 31s from Babcock’s just-completed Frigate Hall at Rosyth. UK Government Minister for Scotland Iain Stewart said: "These figures show that defence not only plays a crucial part in the security of the United Kingdom but also contributes significantly to delivering high-skilled jobs and investment in Scotland, not least through shipbuilding.

"The prosperity generated by defence employment in Scotland and around the UK, alongside our Plan for Jobs, is helping us build back better from the pandemic." Scottish Conservative Constitution spokesperson Donald Cameron said: “Scotland has a proud history of playing a significant part in the work of our UK Armed Forces, with the military supporting thousands of jobs in many communities, including in my own region of the Highlands and Islands. “These figures show the overwhelming benefits of being part of a strong defence system within the United Kingdom. “Instead of pursuing another divisive independence referendum, the SNP should welcome the fact that defence spending in the UK is worth almost £2billion a year for Scotland’s economy.” READ MORE: Fury as EU checks cause record border delays for lorries

This comes with Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announcing plans to give Scotland a £1billion "Union" boost to the armed forces with a restructuring and reorganisation of all army units. In response, an SNP told the Scottish Daily Express as an independent nation, the country's defence strategy will be based on being a "good North Atlantic neighbour". They added: "The UK Government has slashed the Armed Forces to their smallest size since the War of the Spanish Succession." Express.co.uk has contacted the SNP for comment. DON'T MISS

Ian Blackford was blasted in Covid row: 'Do as I say, not as I do' [COMMENTS]

State pension outrage as SNP's Blackford claims UK will pay for Scots [REPORT]

SNP’s shame as missed bin collections spark over 9,000 complaints [LATEST]

Last month, Scotland's First Minister Ms Sturgeon insisted she is "determined" Scots will be able to vote at a second referendum on Scottish independence by the end of 2023. The SNP leader has not said when legislation for an IndyRef2 might be introduced at the Scottish Parliament - but hinted a timetable could be revealed in the "coming weeks". She told the BBC: "The preparatory work is underway right now - but we haven't decided on the date when we would seek to introduce the bill. "What I have said, and I will happily say again, is that my intention is to take the steps that will facilitate a referendum happening before the end of 2023.