The Home Secretary said the French President was "very, very wrong" in his criticism of Britain as she vowed to work with international partners to stop migrants crossing the Dover Strait in small boats. More than 28,000 people made the dangerous journey from the continent to the UK last year, putting their lives at risk.

Stopping more people from attempting to make the treacherous crossing has been a priority for the Government. Despite the Government's efforts to quell the numbers, Mr Macron has blamed the UK for boats attempting to make it across the Channel. The President told French newspaper La Voix du Nord that the UK economy relied on low-paid, "illegal" immigrant labour. Stubbornly refusing to accept any blame, he said: "The British continue to have a system from the 1980s, which manages economic immigration through hypocrisy. READ MORE: UK forced to step in with new alliance as Macron and Scholz’ bids fail

"There is no legal immigration route." "The responsibility for those who die at sea does not fall upon France but upon this British refusal." Rejecting Mr Macron's attack on the UK, Ms Patel said this morning: "Macron's comments are wrong. They are absolutely wrong. "Let me be very, very clear about that." Speaking to MPs on the home affairs select committee, she added: "The entire French government, both the interior minister and President Macron, are fully aware the good work that our ambassador in Paris and her team does in terms of: number one, the cooperation we have to have with France to combat the dangerous and unnecessary crossings, dealing with illegal migration, but also working with likeminded partners across Europe. "So, those comments are just wrong." READ MORE: France will be 'EXPELLED' from top world powers in 10 years

"The French government are fully briefed on our work the British government is doing: the Nationality and Borders Bill, the investments that we put in France in terms of protection, working with their surveillance teams, and also working with intelligence cells and policing," Ms Patel said. "We speak to our French counterparts all the time on illegal migration - Channel crossings - which is clearly a very, very significant problem." Tensions between London and Paris on migration have ramped up in recent months. Last November 27 migrants drowned when the small boat they were using to try and make it to the UK capsized.