The talkRADIO host suggested that Boris Johnson may still hold office despite his ongoing partygate woes because the British public may not be convinced that Liz Truss or Sir Keir Starmer would be an upgrade or have what it takes to follow in his footsteps. Speaking to Labour MP Lisa Nandy, Ms Hartley-Brewer highlighted how the Prime Minister could capitalise on a shortage of options to remain in place. Mr Johnson has overseen a rollercoaster time as Prime Minister with Brexit and COVID-19 adding to the major task he already had on hands to run a country.

Ms Hartley-Brewer candidly suggested that, with Britain being down to the bare bones in terms of alternatives and the absence of someone who is viewed as a clear upgrade on Mr Johnson himself, things may remain unchanged behind the black Nr 10 Downing Street door for the time being. She said: "Do you think he’s gonna remain in his job depending on how the May election goes? "And who can tell what voters are going to do, whether Tory voters go over to Labour or another party or whether they sit on their hands? "Or whether they say fine no this is [Boris Johnson staying] the best option, we don’t want Liz and Andy and Keir Starmer in power, we don’t know what is going to happen in which case he will still be in office in two year’s time." JUST IN: ‘Disgraceful!’ BBC Breakfast viewers fume over ‘staggering’ Michael Gove interview

But Lisa Nandy, who has been the Labour MP for Wigan since 2010, said that he should call it a day as he has been "dragging the country through the gutter". She said: "I would just appeal to Conservative MPs this circus has gone on for far too long. "It’s time for the Prime Minister to go. And it’s time to start focussing on the things that really matter to people in this country. "There’s an unfolding crisis, energy bills are going up, shopping bills are going up, a tax hike is about to hit people who can least bear it, we've got to start dealing with these things." READ MORE: 'Surely it’s a joke?' RAF ridiculed over new 'Star Trek' uniforms

Labour MP also declared that Britain is not going to ruffle many feathers and tackle problems such as the tax hike for as long as Mr Johnson sticks around as she urged him to step aside so the country can finally get in a political leader worthy of his name. She said: " I don’t think for a moment that he’s gonna do the right and resign, he’s proven over the last 24 hours that he’s far more interested in his job than anybody else is but there are Tory MPs who need to search their consciences and some of them have done the right thing in the interest of their constituents and their country. "And if they won’t do it, then he’s gonna have to face the public and the public will make their own minds up. "Stop making the wrong decisions, do the right thing please, and give this country a leader who is actually fit to hold office." 'UK won't pay!' Blackford shut down after outrageous independence state pension demand

Holidays in doubt! Spain REJECTS EU rules putting UK getaway plans on ice

Trade with EU collapsed! German press mocks Brexit Britain as Boris hails 'small victory'