Economist Gary Stevenson has set out why the Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak should hit the rich in the UK with more tax. Mr Stevenson told BBC's Radio 5 Live that HMRC should go after the wealth held by millionaires rather than tax ordinary working people. The comments come as the UK faces an increase in Nationa Insurance contributions from April in addition to soaring energy bill prices.

Mr Stevenson told Radio 5 Live: "It has to be a wealth tax. "At the moment, we have a tax system, which is very, very effective at taxing ordinary working people. "I'm sure you pay your fair share of tax when you work, I paid mine, but very wealthy people who get their income from wealth, rather than work tend to be extremely low rates of tax because they don't pay normal income tax. It's capital gains, it's trusts that have lower rates of tax and it can be more easily avoided. "So currently, we have a tax system where ordinary people pay very high rates of tax." JUST IN: 'Spewing atomic waste!' Russia building nuclear missiles 'considered too dangerous by US'

He continued: "I paid more than 50 percent on everything I made, but wealthy people pay almost nothing." "If you have this system is inevitable that wealth will flow up, the rich will get massively richer, which they are doing. "Ordinary families will get poorer and the economy will be weaker. "We need to shift taxes to wealth, we need to bring in a wealth tax and how would that wealth tax actually work? Well, the first thing to do is to make clear the difference between wealth and income."

"Ordinary people probably just own a house if they're lucky, but wealthy people own hundreds of millions of pounds worth of assets." "It's about looking at the wealth that you own, and saying you need to pay a percentage of that back," added the economist. "Because it's important to realise that these guys make money from their wealth and that money comes from us but at the moment, they're not paying anything back. "So it's about not looking just at work at income by looking at least family, small amount of families have accumulated huge amounts of wealth and saying, Look, we can't let you continue sucking wealth out society. You have to start paying tax not just on your income, which often don't pay, but on the wealth that you own as well."