European governments, some facing elections this year, have ploughed tens of billions of euros into measures designed to shield households from record-high energy prices. As the EU Commission made clear last year it would not intervene in the crisis, EU governments have been implementing Brussels-backed policies to help consumers.

But according to a study conducted by Politico for 11 EU countries, taxpayers will be bearing the brunt of the costs of energy bills in the near future as their state coffers dry out now. The budgetary impact ranges from at least €210million (£175million) in Ireland to €20billion (£16billion) in France. The European Commission in October published a "toolbox" of measures EU members can use without breaching competition rules, including subsidies to help poorer households, funding for renovations that reduce energy use or exempting vulnerable households from higher energy taxes. France has committed to capping an increase in regulated electricity costs at 4 percent. To help do this the government has ordered utility EDF, which is 80 percent state owned, to sell more cheap nuclear power to rivals.

German government departments said they are working on efforts to help consumers affected by wholesale prices. Greece will extend financial relief at a cost of around €400 million to help households and businesses into January. The Italian government has spent more than €8 billion since July to curb hikes in retail energy bills. Italy is also working on more measures to ease bills, such as rejigging some renewable energy subsidies and implementing tax reforms. Spain cut several taxes to try to reduce consumer bills, originally planning to maintain the lower rates until the end of the year, but it decided in December to keep them lower until May 2022. It has also put a cap on gas price increases under regulated tariffs but the government eventually rowed back on moves to claw back from energy companies around €2.6 billion in profits originally deemed to have been made unfairly during the energy price crisis. READ MORE: ‘Disaster!’ Kamala Harris blasted in ferocious tweet as Biden ‘playing

As a result of all these measures, public debt in the eurozone is now above 97 percent of GDP. Countries like Greece, Spain and Italy have debt levels above 120 percent of GDP. Speaking to Politico, Simone Tagliapietra, senior fellow at Brussels-based think tank Bruegel, said: "If you look at the futures markets, natural gas is going to remain expensive, and that's without even contemplating what could happen to prices if a conflict breaks out in Ukraine. "There's only so long that you can cut taxes or keep broad subsidies in place. "Energy costs for Italian companies are expected to jump from €8 billion in 2019 to €37 billion this year ... There's no way for the state to cover that gap, and we're just talking about businesses here, not even families." DON'T MISS:

Made in Britain, Sold to World! £1tn export bounty about to explode [INSIGHT]

Now Boris ditches Frost's master plan in Civil Service coup [REACTION]

Fury as EU checks cause record border delays for lorries [ANALYSIS]