The Queen appears to be planning something special for her grandson Prince William's 40th birthday later this year, a royal biographer has said.

The Duke of Cambridge celebrates the landmark on June 21, weeks after the Platinum Jubilee.

A royal expert claims she has been getting down to work to make sure it's the perfect day for the Prince.

The Monarch has "a big thing planned" for his birthday this summer in what will be a huge month for the royal family.

Royal expert Christopher Andersen, author of The Brothers and Wives: Inside the Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry, and Meghan, says something special is brewing.

Speaking to US Weekly he claimed: "The Queen has a big thing planned for William and he is going to throw something as well.

"There will be big parties again, if Covid allows anything like that to happen."

It was reported that the Cambridges threw a 'low-key' bash for Kate's 40th, organised by William and their three kids - Prince George, 8, Princess Charlotte, 6, and Prince Louis, 3, in January.

But where will they see in William's 40th?

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have reportedly left members of their London circle 'aghast' by considering a move to Berkshire.

The royal couple currently split their time between their official London home of Kensington Palace and their weekend retreat of Amner Hall in Norfolk and are said to be ready to move as living in suburbia makes "total sense".

According to the Telegraph, the pair are eyeing up a move to Windsor - and are interested in the Fort Belvedere residence.

The publication writes: "Their London circle is aghast – what’s wrong with Anmer Hall, their 10-bedroom weekend house in Norfolk? – and so, too, are their green-welly friends, who consider this corner of Berkshire as not proper countryside and horribly naff."

However, a source told the paper: "People can be very snotty about that area west of London, but that mainly comes out of ignorance.

"It’s picturesque and also meaningfully close to town, unlike other parts of the Home Counties."

A move to Windsor would also see them nearer Kate's family, who is based not far away in Bucklebury.

A source told the Mail on Sunday at the time: “Anmer Hall made sense while William was a helicopter pilot in East Anglia and it was useful for Christmases at Sandringham, but it doesn’t really work anymore.

"It’s a little too far away for weekends, but Windsor is a perfect compromise. They are eyeing up options in the area."