Judgement day has arrived for the Chicken Big Mac - and it’s nothing like I expected.

Those big thinkers over at McDonald’s have come up with yet another version of their iconic Big Mac, having previously doubled it up to four patties, made it wider and even added bacon.

But this time they’ve gone completely outside the box and switched the classic beef patties for two 100 per cent CHICKEN breast patties in a crispy coating.

The intriguing new burger has launched in UK restaurants today and as I approached the counter i was filled with a mix of excitement and trepidation.

What struck me first was the sleek new blue box design, but that aromatic smell that emerged when I lifted the lid was the same as usual.

So have McDonald’s managed to pull it out the bag again or is this something even the Hamburgler would not steal? I queued outside McDonald's in London Bridge at 10.30am (after forgetting breakfast times had changed until 11am) to find out...

Get the news you want straight to your inbox. Sign up for a Mirror newsletter here .

Just like any Big Mac, the first thing you taste is that creamy special sauce and it works incredibly well with the chicken.

I was concerned about the Chicken Big Mac being too dry but to my surprise it was moist enough and lashings of sauce were a bonus.

The biggest positive of this mouth-watering delight is simply the amount of meat you get.

The classic Big Mac comes with a pair of thin beef patties that really leave you wanting more, but these succulent chicken pieces are definitely enough to fill you up.

My only complaint would be the presentation, which leaves a lot to be desired as the chicken is lopsided and the whole thing does just fall apart when you take the first bite.

It could also have done with another slice of cheese on the top half of the burger as it worked really well in the bottom section.

Is it better than its beef counterpart?

For me the classic Big Mac just about edges it but this is by far the best of the attempts to revolutionise the iconic burger.

But that’s just my humble opinion - and now you can go judge for yourself as the Chicken Big Mac is now available in 1,300 UK stores.

It’s already proven to be a mega hit in Australia as it’s already sold out Down Under, while the clock is also ticking on these shores.

You’d better be quick if you want to snap one up as they are only staying on the menu until March 15.

The chicken Big Mac comes in slightly more expensive than the classic version, costing 50p more at £4.09 for a sandwich, although prices do vary between branches.

McDonald’s are finally bringing the chicken edition of their most famous burger to the UK after plenty of demand.

"It’s one of McDonald’s most requested menu items and it’s finally here – featuring two 100% chicken breast patties in a crispy coating, a slice of cheese, lettuce, pickles and the deliciously world-famous inimitable Big Mac sauce between the iconic three-layered bun," they said in a statement.

McDonald’s have ripped up their menu this month - scrapping some popular items to the dismay of many and bringing back some beloved classic.

Big Mac’s are changing left, right and centre as the enormous four patty version is making a comeback.

The Double Big Mac, which was previously introduced as per of the Christmas menu in 2020, costs £4.39 for the burger on its own or £5.69 for a medium meal.

But just like the chicken Big Mac you’d better be quick as it will be disappearing off the menu on March 15.

Poultry lovers are in for a real treat as the iconic Chicken Legend, which was removed from the menu in October due to supply issues, is making a much-welcomed returned.

It'll cost £3.89 for a single burger or £5.29 for a medium meal, but also has that March 15 pesky end date.

And just to really add to the nostalgia, Mozzarella dippers and Galaxy chocolate and salted caramel McFlurries are returning to the menu for a six-week period.

A box of three mozzarella dippers will set you back £1.89, while a sharing box with nine dippers come in at £5.09 (with prices varying depending on your location).

If you’re looking for dessert then a mini Galaxy or Salted Galaxy McFlurry is priced at 99p, while a regular size will cost £1.49.

However, there is some bad news as merciless McDonald’s are culling some items from the menu.

Some fans have threatened to “boycott” after it was announced that breakfast bagels and wraps . are getting axed.

In an emotional statement, McDonald’s said: "Despite speculation and following a trial separation period, breakfast bagels and breakfast wraps will not be returning to the menu.

"We adore each other deeply but our love for the iconic McMuffin was simply too hard to ignore.

"As for the rumours that there will be a new breakfast bae on the scene later this year... no comment.”

Are you excited for the new McDonald's changes? Let us know in the comments below.

Do you have a story to share? Emailwebfeatures@trinitymirror.com