Single mum Beth Connock can no longer afford to keep the house warm AND feed her two children after her heating bills soared by 80 per cent.

The 28-year-old mum of two - who is a full-time carer to disabled son Tommy, aged 5 - has now lived without heating for more than a month.

“It's really upsetting because I feel like a failure of a mother. I can choose between keeping my house warm at the moment and feeding the kids.

“And the kids need to be fed but they need to be warm, it’s quite upsetting. No one should have to choose between feeding or eating.”

Beth is one of the 1.5 million UK householders whose heating is powered by oil as her home in the rural hamlet of Dartshill, Somerset does not have a mains gas supply.

Get the news you want straight to your inbox. Sign up for a Mirror newsletter here

Her problem started as the cost to heat her family home, which she rents, rose sharply - from £210 to £380 for 500 litres, to fill less than half the tank.

The cost of living crisis has left the mum, Tommy, five, and Gabby, three, forced to share a bed each night.

They have a tiny electric heater to warm the bedroom they share, but in the evenings, they can see their breath in their living room when the temperature drops.

Desperate to keep her children warm, Beth bundles them up in jumpers and scarves at home - but Tommy, who is autistic, struggles to wear the outfits.

She says: “We’re wearing a lot of extra layers and having to sleep in the same bed to keep warm.

“I shut the bedroom door to keep our body heat in but as soon as we got downstairs, it is freezing and we’re all shivering.

“It’s a very old draughty cottage, I woke up the other morning around 5 am to find ice around the windowsill.

“We’re wearing a lot more clothes, which means a lot more washing and a backlog of clothes as we wait days for things to dry.

“It’s also a choice when it comes to hot water - if the kids have a bath, I can’t have a shower as well.”

She added: “I have no money and I’m worried about the kids getting ill because it is so cold.

“February and March can be the coldest months so I needed to get something done quickly.”

Tommy, aged five, is “very delayed” and has to wear specific clothes, meaning he doesn’t like wearing the extra layers.

Beth is unable to work after becoming his full-time carer due to his severe epilepsy and the family rely on Universal Credit to get by.

She previously tried to get a loan but was refused as she still owes around £30 from the last loan she received.

“I’ve tried everything. I even tried to get a grant in my local area but I heard nothing back,” the mum said.

She also claims disability allowance to support him, who spent nine weeks in hospital in 2020, suffering constant seizures.

He has to wear a helmet to protect himself if he falls, and mum Beth is on constant alert for his seizures.

“Because of his epilepsy and autism, he is very delayed, and he doesn’t understand why we need to wear these extra clothes,” added Beth.

“So trying to keep him warm it’s really difficult, he’s used to having heating and now we don’t have it.

The desperate mum recently turned to to help cover the £400 bill - where one kindhearted stranger donated £100 anonymously.

The hike in the price of oil comes amid a cost of living crisis with Beth’s rent recently rising by £25 per month - a rise she will struggle to cover.

Struggling Brits are bracing for further financial turmoil this spring - with tax rises, wage cuts and soaring bills set to batter household budgets further.

The cost of living crisis could see families suffer a £2,000 a year average hit, The Mirror exclusively revealed today - in a further blow to families such as Beth's.

Low-income families are set to be the most affected by the crisis - with no spending they can cut back on.

She said: “We scrape by every month, it’s difficult. With Universal Credit, I don’t know if they’ll cover the rent increase.

“As a single mum on benefits, £25 is a lot of money.

“Tommy’s school is about half an hour away so I do an hour-round journey every day to get him there.

“It got to the point where I was desperate for heating and I just had to set up a GoFundMe page.”

She plans to donate any excess to the Daisy Garland charity, that supported her family while Tommy was in the hospital.