Top UFC featherweight Arnold Allen thinks he goes under the radar in the promotion because of his lack of trash talk.

Allen holds one of the longest active winning streaks in the UFC, going unbeaten in his last eight bouts for the promotion.

The Suffolk-born fighter will arguably face his toughest test so far at UFC London on March 19, as he fights No.8 ranked lightweight Dan Hooker.

Allen, who is ranked No.7 at featherweight, was forced out for the rest of 2021 following his win against Sodiq Yusuff in April due to a hand injury.

And 'Almighty' thinks his string of decision wins, lack of activity and avoidance of trash-talking is the reason he goes under the radar.

"Activity, I'm not knocking people out and I don't really talk any crap. I think those are the main reasons to be honest," he said.

"I just don't wanna be someone I'm not, that's not who I am. I've always been pretty humble and quiet.

"I'm not gonna start calling people names over the internet, it's just not what I do. Also, I don't really want to be famous. I don't like it.

"I just want to be the best fighter in the world, I don't necessarily want the fame that comes with it."

Allen usually spends part of training camp at Tristar in Canada under UFC legend George St-Pierre's former coach Firas Zahabi, but is unable to do so this camp due to Covid-19 restrictions.

The Brit is sending footage across to coach Zahabi for his upcoming fight, but the trainer will still fly across to the UK to corner Allen for the bout.

Hooker's return to 145-pounds comes after a four-year stint at lightweight in which he beat veterans such as Gilbert Burns and Paul Felder.

Can Arnold Allen become a UFC champion? Let us know your thoughts in the comments section below

But Allen doesn't think the 6'0" New Zealander will be the same fighter at 145-pounds due to his hefty weight cut.

"Obviously there's that thought 'oh he knocked out this guy at this weight' but at the end of the day we're fighting at featherweight," he continued.

"So I'm only worried about things he does at featherweight, he's not going to be the lightweight fighter at featherweight because he has to lose the weight and drain himself.

"I've fought people in the same situation, Gilbert Melendez. He's had those same kind of fights, he's had world titles at a high level and beat top guys, so I've been there before."

UFC FIGHT NIGHT®: VOLKOV vs. ASPINALL tickets go on sale from 10 a.m. GMT on Friday, February 4, via AXS and Ticketmaster. To stay up to date with the latest ticketing information, register your interest via UFC.com/London.