Shameless Michael Gove today insisted Boris Johnson should not apologise for his slur about Jimmy Savile and Keir Starmer.

Asked if the PM should say sorry, the Levelling-Up Secretary said bluntly “no” - despite condemnation mounting from Tory MPs and the Commons Speaker.

The PM lashed out at the Labour leader on Monday during a Commons debate on lockdown-breaking parties in Downing Street, accusing him of failing to prosecute the notorious paedophile.

Mr Starmer led the Crown Prosecution Service when it decided not to prosecute Savile in 2009 due to insufficient evidence, a decision it later apologised for.

But the Full Fact website investigated in 2020 and found it had never actually been suggested that Sir Keir was personally involved in the decision.

Instead, the CPS said: “The reviewing lawyer at the time set out their own reasons for the decisions they took”.

Sir Keir told Sky News: "It is a ridiculous slur peddled by right-wing trolls.”

But Mr Gove said: "I think this is a uniquely sensitive issue and it does need to be handled with care, and I listen with enormous respect to those who act for victims of the actions of a terrible, terrible criminal.

"But - and it's not a subject that I want to dwell on because it is uniquely sensitive - it is the case that the CPS apologised for the handling of this case and what happened in 2009, and I think we should acknowledge that an apology was given at the time and respect that."

He added: "Keir Starmer acknowledged that mistakes had been made by the organisation of which he was head, to his credit. He was very clear about those mistakes."

Boris Johnson is facing fresh calls from senior Tories to withdraw his discredited claim.

Former minister Tobias Ellwood said the Conservative Party needs to "improve our standards", while Simon Hoare, chairman of the Commons Northern Ireland Affairs Committee, said the "false allegation" should be withdrawn.

Speaking on Sky News, Mr Ellwood, who became the latest Tory MP to call for Mr Johnson to resign, said: "Who advised the Prime Minister to say this?

"We're better than this, we must seek to improve our standards and rise above where we are today."

Mr Hoare tweeted: "The Jimmy Savile false allegation should be withdrawn."

On Tuesday, Sir Charles Walker, vice chairman of the Tory backbench 1922 Committee, told Channel 4 News that the comment had been a "mistake" and Mr Johnson should apologise.

"I wish he hadn't done it. I suspect he wishes he hadn't done it," he said.

"I think it might have been at the time in the heat of battle, because it gets very heated on the floor of the House. It's very febrile. But I think it was a mistake.

"Of course he should withdraw it. It didn't add to the overall debate. It's really good though to be able to apologise. I think you never get marked down for an apology. It's not a sign of weakness."