Boots shoppers are going wild over this £15 foundation - and they’re calling it “absolutely perfect.”

High street retailer Boots is known for stocking high end brands, budget friendly offerings and its own range of items, too.

Now, a foundation by beauty brand favourite No7 has been receiving praise online and even our own beauty editors loved it, saying: "It felt light and moisturising, and the medium coverage meant it was ideal for daytime – I thought my skin looked more even and younger, without being cakey."

No7’s HydraLuminous Moisturising Foundation, which is priced at £14.95, aims to give you “visibly fresh and radiant looking skin in an instant”.

We're already sold - and by looking at the reviews on the Boots website, it seems hundreds of beauty fanatics are too. One customer gave it full marks and shared: "I usually buy high end foundations but saw this one in my local Boots and as it is new, I bought it. It’s excellent and an equal to any of the expensive ones I have used. My skin looks younger and healthier and this is now my favourite foundation."

Another echoed the top quality of the base, posting "I brought this as had run out of my ysl touché eclat foundation and wanted to try something lighter for the summer. Absolutely love it and highly recommend."

A third fan of the foundation said: “The absolute best. I’ve tried hundreds, foundation’s, bb cc tinted moisturisers, some good, but have never used one this good. Absolutely the smoothest foundation I’ve ever used.

“I simply can’t believe this product doesn’t have one downside. I’m 48 and this is the first foundation that moisturises and doesn't cake or peel. Totally wonderful.”

There are a total of 19 shades to choose from, however some are sold out online, so it may be worth popping into your local Boots store to get your perfect match.

There's also the added bonus that the No7 foundation is featured in the brand's buy 1 get 2nd half price deal too - so it’s perfect if you’re looking to stock up on the beauty must-have, or other items from the No7 range.