Molly-Mae Hague has finally got a new pet after her and Tommy Fury ’s puppy died after four days in their care.

The former Love Island star was left devastated in May 2020, when her Pomeranian puppy Mr. Chai had a seizure and died, days after arriving in the UK after being bought by boxer Tommy as a gift for his girlfriend.

Molly faced a huge backlash after it emerged the pup had been imported from Russia, and in an emotional video on her YouTube channel, the 22-year-old shared the sad news Mr. Chai had suffered a seizure at the vets and died.

The couple were heartbroken, and even threatened legal action against the breeder who sold them the puppy, but now it looks like they’ve finally moved on from their loss.

Sharing a snap on her Instagram Stories, Molly revealed she was the proud owner of a gorgeous grey cat.

The puss was sitting on top of her clothes in the snap, which was taken early in the morning in the reality star's walk-in wardrobe, and she joked the cat was preventing her from leaving on time.

“If I lie on her stuff then maybe she’ll stay home and rub my belly,” Molly wrote atop the snap.

The model and influencer announced the tragic passing of her pet pooch in a statement on Instagram, and at the time, she told her fans she and Tommy were “utterly heartbroken”.

“Our beautiful new puppy Mr Chai was taken ill in the last few days and tragically has passed away.

“Chai became our whole world in the short time we had him and we couldn't have take any better care of him,” she wrote.

Molly even took a break from social media following her loss, as she faced fury from her followers who slammed her for importing a dog.

In light of the controversy surrounding her new puppy, the Daily Mirror launched a campaign - Ban Puppy Imports - which has since been backed by celebrities, including Daid Mccall, and MPs.

She later spoke about her dog’s death in an emotional video on YouTube, and said she took Mr. Chai to the vets after realising something “wasn’t right”.

“The vet rang up and said Chai had a seizure and he died. Tommy literally threw up everywhere,” she sobbed.

“I was like: 'It's a prank' as we get prank called all the time and she was like: ‘No, your dog has died,’” Molly said.

She hit back at her critics, and said it wasn’t being flown over from Russia that contributed to his death.

“Whilst we completely understand everyone's opinions about being shipped over from Russia, what you need to understand is that is not what made him die,” Molly stated.