Amanda Holden is reportedly ready to cover for Phillip Schofield on Dancing On Ice this weekend.

The This Morning presenter, 59, revealed he had tested positive for Covid on Monday, after enjoying a family outing to the theatre over the weekend.

Alison Hammond was called up to replace Phil on the ITV show on Tuesday, as the Covid-stricken presenter was out of hosting the programme for at least five days.

Phillip will also need negative lateral flow tests on days five and six if he wants to return to Dancing On Ice on Sunday night.

If the quarantined star keeps testing positive, ITV bosses are said to be keen to create an all-female hosting duo for this weekend's edition of the skating show.

Dancing On Ice are apparently keen to take advantage of the situation and have Heart FM radio presenter Amanda, 50, in mind as a stand-in host.

"ITV are a progressive channel who want to reflect the modern world as much as possible," a source has told The Sun.

"And while Dancing on Ice ’s bosses are gutted to see Phillip forced to temporarily step out of hosting duties, that also presents an opportunity to have two women front the show.

They added: "Producers have seen the energy that Tess Daly and Claudia Winkleman have brought to Strictly and they’re curious to see how Holly bounces off another female presenter.

"But there’s no question of Phillip not returning. He’ll be champing at the bit to get back to work."

Covid-stricken Phillip shared the news of his lateral flow test on Instagram on Monday night, writing: "Well b******s.

The dad-of-two added: "Currently just a slightly sore throat ".

Alison joined Rochelle Humes, 32, in the This Morning studios the following morning, with the pair checking in with usual host Phillip at home.

"Poor Phil has obviously tested positive for Covid so he can't be in the studio today but don't worry, he can be at home and he can be with all of us right now. Oh there he is, there is the test. We believe you."

Rochelle - who has been covering Holly Willoughby's time off - joked: "I just thought he didn't like me anymore."

Former Big Brother star Alison quipped: "Do you think maybe he just had a glass of orange juice to make it go positive? 'I've had enough'. I'm only joking."

Showing off his hoodie, which read "isolation nation", the Covid-stricken star chatted with the stand-in presenting duo as they discussed what was coming up on the show, including Gok Wan's Chinese cookery segment and interviews with Lily James and Sebastian Stan.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.