FC Barcelona have finally confirmed the signing of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.

The Gabon international has signed a deal that ties him to the Blaugrana until June 2025.

Interestingly, the deal also contains a clause that allows both parties the "option to agree departure" in June 2023.

As is customary in Spain, Aubameyang has also had a release clause set in his contract to the tune of €100million.

Barcelona are yet to announce when Aubameyang will be unveiled to the home faithful, though it is expected he will share the stage with fellow January recruit Adama Traore.

HAVE YOUR SAY! How will Aubameyang fare at Barcelona? Comment below

Aubameyang's arrival in Catalunya has already thrown up some issues from a Barcelona perspective just two days in, as his addition means one of the four January signings will be ineligible for the Europa League campaign this season.

As well as Aubameyang and Traore, Barcelona also enticed Dani Alves and Ferran Torres to the Camp Nou but only three will be available for selection for the upcoming knockout stage clash with Napoli.

UEFA regulations state that only three new registered signings can participate once the competition resumes, leaving manager Xavi scratching his head over who to omit.

Aubameyang's Arsenal exit was the most likely option ever since Gunners boss Mikel Arteta exiled him from the first-team fold and forced him to train alone.

The 32-year-old also had the club captaincy stripped of him following his latest disciplinary breach which is thought to have stemmed from Aubameyang returning later than expected from a mid-season trip to France.

In the wake of his departure, Aubameyang bid farewell to the Arsenal fanbase via a short statement uploaded to Instagram.

"To the Arsenal fans, Thank you for making London home for myself and my family for the past four years," the ex-Gunners skipper wrote.

"We went through ups and downs together and your support meant everything to me.

"Having the chance to win trophies and the honour of being the captain of this club is something I will forever keep in my heart.

"I have always been 100% focused and committed on doing everything I can for this club which is why leaving without a real goodbye hurts - but that is football.

"I’m sad I did not get the chance to help my teammates in the last few weeks, but I have nothing but respect for this club and truly wish all my guys and the fans all the best and many successful years in the future! Love, Auba."