Baked beans are amongst the most classic British staples, perfect for breakfast, lunches and dinners.

Reliable and easy, they have become synonymous with one brand in particular as Heinz Baked Beanz has long been the gold standard.

Due to their success, it’s no surprise that supermarkets up and down the country have created their own versions of baked beans for Brits to enjoy.

Now there are so many options out there for what you could add to your fry-up, it can be difficult to know which one to choose.

This is exactly why one reporter from Hull Live was given the task of taste testing a number of supermarket own brand beans to see how they stand up to Heinz.

They bought beans from Asda, Tesco, Sainsbury's, and Morrisons to test them against the much-loved Heinz.

Armed with all these tins of beans and some slightly burned toast, here is the reporter's full thoughts on each option.

We'll start with Ivan's thoughts on the mighty Heinz, which is described as "easily the most expensive" at £1 for the 415g tin.

Out of all the options, Heinz iconic design is seen as the prettiest out of all of them.

Ivan said: "And these were very enjoyable beans, with a notably sweeter taste also to the tomato sauce which they were bathed in.

"Not much else to say here, a quality tin of beans."

First up was Asda's version which will only set customers back 25p for a 210g tin.

On the supermarket's option Ivan said: "I did not really notice at the time but these beans had a much brighter red colour to them than any of the other brands taste tested.

"Aesthetically, the most pleasant on the eye."

However, the tin immediately lost points for causing a slight injury to the thumb when they tried to peel the tin lid back after being opened with a tin-opener.

The flavour was not enough to save the dish from the mishap either as Ivan said: "they were really not that flavoursome for me.

Following the accidental injury and disappointment that was Asda, next one on the list was the Sainsbury's version.

Ivan splashed out a bit more on this tin by purchasing a 35p 200g tin of beans from the popular Taste The Difference range.

On this option he said: "A worthy effort, with beans that had flavour to them and not just the tomato sauce.

"Alas, where these beans fell bottom of the class was on tin design. The tin had a can opener and this instantly broke without having peeled back any part of the top, or under much pressure at all."

The tin also was giving a bit of kudos from Ivan as it did not leave any minor injuries after they had to open the tin with a small knife as a tin-opener was not suitable.

Next up was a good value for money 32p 420g tin of baked beans from popular supermarket chain Tesco.

Ivan felt that these beans held their own against the slightly burned toast that they were armed with to make a simple but delicious meal.

The reporter said of the beans: "With the toast, the Tesco beans held their own and had just the right level of tomato sauce to achieve decent, but not outrageous, saturation levels of the bread.

"But when the toast was gone and only beans and sauce were left, the taste was markedly less appealing in a stark contrast that I did not experience with any of the other brands."

Despite holding their own with the toast, the taste alone of the beans were not enough to warrant being ate on their own.

The last supermarket to be tested was Morrisons, which turned out to be quite a surprise.

This was the one that Ivan had to wait on the longest as they, unfortunately, could not find them and the toast was just a bit more burned this time around.

That being said, this 220g tin from Morrisons costing just 35p managed to beat out all of the other supermarket options and took the crown for the best own-brand version.

Despite having less sauce, Ivan said of the humble tin: "It was just as delicious as rival contestant Heinz and I was disappointed when I had mopped up the last bean.

"A mark extra credit is also awarded to this brand compared to Heinz, purely because of the greater value for money."

Out of all the beans tried, it turns out that Ivan found a surprising winner in Morrisons as they managed to just dethrone Heinz as the best option out of the bunch.

The mighty Heinz managed to come in a respectable second place.

Sainsbury's came third with their flavourful beans and Tesco came in at fourth with their option that was mostly good if mopped up with bread.