East Kilbride Sea Cadets helped plant the seeds of growth at a new memorial orchard.

When local councillor Monique McAdams contacted the cadets to see if they could help plant the orchard at the James Hamilton Heritage Park they jumped at the chance to get involved in giving something back to the community.

The orchard will be in memory of those who have died during the Covid pandemic.

The Lanarkshire Live app is available to download now. Get all the news from your area – as well as features, entertainment, sport and the latest on Lanarkshire’s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic – straight to your fingertips, 24/7. The free download features the latest breaking news and exclusive stories, and allows you to customise your page to the sections that matter most to you. Head to the App Store and never miss a beat in Lanarkshire - iOS - Android

East Kilbride Sea Cadets have a long standing association with the James Hamilton Heritage Park as they use the loch as a base for their water sports activities offered to sea cadets during the summer months.

Councillor McAdams said: "The fruit trees were felt to be a fitting tribute to residents in the town who have passed away during the Covid pandemic and hopefully, as they grow they will flourish and offer hope for a more positive future."

Jim Harper, chairman of East Kilbride Sea Cadets, has been involved with the group since they moved into the town and recognises the benefits to young people of being involved in the Sea Cadets Corps, which offers a whole host of activities based on a maritime theme.

He added: "With the Sea Cadets celebrating 50 years in East Kilbride what a better way to mark this significant event than to give back their time by planting trees which will hopefully be enjoyed by the residents for another 50 years to come.

"The wellbeing of young people is so important and the opportunity to meet new people and learn new skills or have new experiences is so important as we go forward in 2022."

If you would like to find out more about joining or volunteering with the EK Sea Cadets contact them on eastkibrideseacadets@hotmail.com

**Don't miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters here.

And did yo u know Lanarkshire Live is on Facebook? Head over to our page to give us a like and share.