The full celebrity line-up of new reality show The Real Dirty Dancing has been finally been revealed.

TV presenter Anthea Turner, Blue’s Lee Ryan, The Only Way Is Essex star James Argent and Geordie Shore’s Marnie Simpson will all take part.

They are joined by Hollyoaks actress Chelsee Healey, Gogglebox’s Tom Malone Jr, YouTuber Saffron Barker, teacher and TV quiz star Bobby Seagull and comics Verona Rose and Darren Harriott.

The eight part E4 show, hosted by Keith Lemon and Ashley Roberts, will follow the 10 celebs as they try to learn the moves made famous by Patrick Swayze and Jennifer Gray in the classic 1987 movie.

Paired up in couples, they will compete to be the last Johnny and Baby standing.

Get all the biggest showbiz news straight to your inbox. Sign up for the free Mirror Showbiz newsletter.

Snaps seen before The Real Dirty Dancing airs this month revealed filming took place at a stunning lakeside location - just like Kellerman’s resort in the film.

Dressed all in white like Baby, Anthea was seen giggling as her and partner Arg tried to recreate the iconic lift in the water.

Arg then dipped himself under as Anthea couldn’t stop laughing at their predicament.

YouTube star Saffron was also seen having a go at the water lift, but viewers will have to tune in to see who wins the show.

As well as the famous lift, the celebs will perform routines inspired by iconic moments in the film, from Hungry Eyes to the jaw-dropping Mambo.

Dance expert Jordan Darrell, who is creative director for strip group Dreamboys, is on hand to put the stars through their paces.

Inspired by the Australian series of the same name, The Real Dirty Dancing will culminate in a showstopping finale where the top two couples take on the moment every fan dreams of – the gravity-defying lift.

While the remaining six celebs will become backing dancing in a one-off celebratory dance.

Speaking about his excitement at hosting the show, Dirty Dancing super fan Keith said: “Dirty Dancing is such a good film.

“Of course, I’ve been Baby myself twice now. Once for Let’s Dance For Comic Relief and once when we did it on The Keith & Paddy Picture Show.

“So I was chuffed to be asked to host this show. And to be hosting with my mate Ashely, it’s going to be so fun.”

Ashley added: “I love Dirty Dancing, the film literally had a huge impact on my life, and I couldn’t be more excited to be involved in this series.

"I'm going to be on hand to help out the celebs with their Johnny and Baby moves and look forward to being reunited with Keith. Wish me luck. It’s going to be a lot of fun."
•The Real Dirty Dancing is set to air in February on E4

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.