'Disgusted' Raith Rovers fans are raising cash towards a rape support charity after the club signed David Goodwillie.

Goodwillie was ruled to have raped a woman in a civil court ruling in 2017 and his appointment to the Fife club from Clyde on an 18-month contract has caused much controversy after being announced on Monday night.

A number of individuals and sponsors linked to the football team have distanced themselves from the Raith Rovers, including director Bill Clark and supporter-director Andy Mill.

Now a fundraiser launched by disgruntled supporters towards Rape Crisis Scotland has reached more than £8,000.

The crowdfunder was set up by season ticket holder Martin Glass after the signing made the dad-of-one feel 'physically sick'.

The 26-year-old told the Record: "There's one emotion to sum this up and that is pure disgust.

"As a football fan you go every Saturday and you feel every emotion - happy, sad, anger - but you don't ever think you will feel disgust over a football decision.

"It made me feel physically sick. This man was ruled to have raped a woman in a civil court.

"I'm a new dad. I have a seven-month-old baby girl so it hit me at home because I want to be a good influence to my daughter."

Goodwillie and fellow footballer David Robertson were accused by Denise Clair of raping her in 2011 following a night out in West Lothian.

The Crown declined to prosecute so the mum-of-one - who waived her right to anonymity - launched a civil case against the duo.

In the first civil case of its kind in Scotland, a judge ruled the pair to be rapists and ordered them to pay £100,000 damages despite never facing a criminal trial.

Clair maintained she was incapable of giving free agreement to sex because of her alcohol consumption, but Goodwillie and Robertson claimed intercourse had been consensual.

An appeal by the pair was dismissed in 2017.

Goodwillie - a former Scotland international - was signed by Clyde and played for the Cumbernauld-based club for five years until joining Rovers this week.

Martin initially launched the fundraiser to show supporters were opposing the decision.

He had a starting target of just £100 but says he's been overwhelmed by the support from the football community.

The bank worker, from Kirkcaldy, said: "I've done some fundraising for Raith Rovers in the past and there was a good response so after the news came out I thought a fundraiser would be a good way for us to show some support against this.

"I initially only put a target of £100. I just wanted to show someone somewhere that we weren't happy with this - but I never expected it to blow up like this.

"Hundreds of people have donated, not just Rovers fans - supporters of Rangers, Celtic, Hearts and Hibs too.

"We've even had Dunfemline fans, who are our rivals, commenting saying they don't want this for any club, including Rovers.

"Scottish football fans are not always painted in the best light. We get a bad name but this shows we can come together for a cause like this. Rivalries are put aside."

Martin insists him and several other supporters will be boycotting the club until the situation is resolved.

Goodwillie was pictured in the stands as Raith Rovers played Queen of the South at home in a game which ended 3-3 on Tuesday night.

Martin said: "Last night's match showed how many Rovers fans are standing against this.

"We have an average attendance of around 1,800 and there was only about 500 people there.

"So people are protesting with their feet - but the fundraiser is just another way to use social media to voice displeasure."

Despite the backlash, Raith Rovers insisted on backing their new player with a statement on Tuesday night.

A statement from the club read: "David is a proven goal scorer.

"As David has previously played for Raith Rovers earlier in his career, we consider him to be part of Raith Rovers Football Club.

"We believe that he will strengthen the playing squad.

"Please be assured that as a community football club we fully acknowledge this signing has divided opinion amongst our loyal fans and commercial stakeholders; We aim to rebuild that trust.

"While acknowledging the gravity of what happened ten years ago, as a club we fully support and encourage rehabilitation, and many factors influenced our signing. First and foremost, this was a football related decision."

However, Martin says supporters were not satisfied with that response.

He said: "I'm only 26 but I know people who are a lot older who have been going to Rovers their whole lives and have said they will not be back.

"It feels like a betrayal. I'm in a lot of group chats and at least half are saying they won't be back until David Goodwillie goes.

"There's also a lot of people that won't be back until the board and the manager are sacked as a result of this.

"The statement was a joke. It didn't give any information at all. What we want as fans is to know the details of how this was allowed to happen.

"We want to know why the directors thought this was a good idea.

"They have disrespected our fan base. Around 30% of our supporters are female as well. I have literally no idea how this has happened."

Support for fundraiser has come in from fans of various clubs across Scotland, with many leaving comments.

Some Raith fans said they would have put the cash into the club had the decision not been made to sign Goodwillie.

Marion Hall, an Aberdeen fan, said: "Despicable piece of business by Raith Rovers, shame on you!"

Krys Kujawa said: "This is the true spirit of Raith Rovers, right here!"

Steve said: "It’s good to see so many people donating in protest against the signing. Donating as an Ayr fan, in solidarity with victims of this horrible crime."

Jonny White said: "From a lifelong Raith fan (Until today) - Sorry for the actions of the club. Every victim deserves better than this. Morals before goals. I hope this collective action from the clubs support help."

John Sutherland said: "Well done Martin. It’s guys like you that made our club so special."

Laura Gourlay added: "25 years a Raith Rovers fan. Heartbroken at the disintegration of the club and it’s community values. Hope this donation goes some way to help someone in need x"

John Johnstone said: "What would have been my payment to the Raith Player Development Fund. This is a much better use of it."

To visit the fundraiser, click here.

Sandy Brindley, Rape Crisis Scotland chief executive, said: "It's so powerful to see so many football fans and locals speaking out against the decision by Raith Rovers FC to sign David Goodwillie.

"People are clearly outraged by the clear disregard for survivors of sexual violence and rightly so.

"We’re so grateful too for the fundraiser and the solidarity.

"It’s amazing to see so many people wanting to show their support for survivors and all money donated here will go straight into our helpline for anyone in Scotland affected by sexual violence."

Raith Rovers were approached for further comment.