A kindhearted Dundee couple have pledged to give £1million to a major children’s charity.

Graeme and Leanne Carling made the amazing promise to charity Caudwell Children.

The couple who made their fortune in property and construction were moved to help after meeting charity founder John Caudwell at the annual Butterfly Ball.

Mobile phones billionaire John set up the charity to provide practical and emotional support for autistic and disabled children.

Graeme and Leanne’s portfolio of companies include McGill, the McDougall Group, Saltire Facilities Management and Kingdom Gas Services.

They also own a substantial property portfolio and operate Carling Property Group.

They are the latest philanthropy power couple to join the prestigious Life-Changers Circle, committing to donate at least £1,000,000 to Caudwell Children.

They met with philanthropist John and his charity pioneer Jo-Ann D'Costa Manuel at his London home Mayfair House to announce the partnership.

They will donate the money over the next ten years.

Speaking on a YouTube film of the meeting, Graeme said they wanted to “give back”.

He said: “Our hard work has left us in the fortunate position to be able to give back.

“It provides us both with a huge sense of personal and spiritual fulfilment to be able to help children who need that extra helping hand.”

While Leanne added: “As parents ourselves, Graeme and I can only imagine what it must feel like to not be able to provide your children with the care and support they need.

“Caudwell Children is removing these difficult barriers for thousands of children and parents every year.

“We are delighted to be able to support their vital work.”

Since 2000, the charity has provided support worth £85m for over 60,000 children with 650 different medical conditions.

Last November they attended its annual Butterfly Ball, where they met some of the children and parents whose lives have been improved by the charity.

Mr Caudwell, who made his fortune with retailer Phones 4u, then invited the pair to join the Life-Changers Circle.

Mr Caudwell said he was “incredibly grateful” for the donation and added: “All of our members share the same passion and desire to make the world a better place.

“We will continue seeking like-minded people to further expand the incredible impact we as a group can have on people’s lives.”

**Don't miss the latest headlines from around Dundee and Tayside. Sign up to our newsletters here .

And did you know Dundee Live is on Facebook? Head over to our page to give us a like and a share .