Whoopi Goldberg has been slammed for claiming that the Holocaust 'was not about race ' because it involved 'two groups of white people'.

And Piers Morgan has even called for her to be sacked from her job on US panel show The View following her dangerous comments.

Actress and former stand up comedian Whoopi, who is thought to be coming to Edinburgh in coming months, has been outspoken in her views in the past with a history of supporting wife-beaters, race-baiters and even a serial rapist.

This time round she managed to insult Jewish people around the world with her Holocaust remarks.

The presenter, who has since issued an apology saying she was 'sorry for the hurt I have caused', spoke out on Monday during an appearance on The View.

Talking about a book on the Holocaust called Maus which has been removed from a school curriculum in Tennessee on the grounds of 'nudity and bad language' she asked a guest. “I’m surprised that’s what made you uncomfortable, the fact that there was some nudity. I mean, it’s about the Holocaust, the killing of 6 million people, but that didn’t bother you?”

“Well, this is white people doing it to white people. Y’all go fight amongst yourselves."

In a follow up, she told her co hosts: "If you're going to do this, then let's be truthful about it, because the Holocaust isn't about race. No, it's not about race."

Co-host Joy Behar asked her: "Then what was it about?"

Whoopi replied: "It's about man's inhumanity to man. That's what it's about."

Whoopi was then told by Ana Navarro: "Well, it's about white supremacy. That's what it's about. It's about going after Jews and gypsies."

And Whoopi said: "But these are two groups of white people. You're missing the point. The minute you turn it into the race, it goes down this alley."

"Let's talk about it for what it is. It's how people treat each other. It's a problem.

"It doesn't matter if you're black or white because black, white, Jews ... everybody eats each other."

"So if you're uncomfortable hearing about Maus, should you be worried, should your child say, 'Oh my God, I wonder if that's me?'"

"No! That's not what they're going to say. They're going to say, 'I don't want to be like that.' Most kids, they don't want to be cruel."

Meghan McCain hit back: "Antisemitism is a cancer and a poison that is increasingly excused in our culture and television - and permeates spaces that should shock us all".

Whoopi has since apologised, saying she "stands corrected".

She tweeted: "The Holocaust was about the Nazi's systematic annihilation of the Jewish people -- who they deemed to be an inferior race. I stand corrected.

"The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I'm sorry for the hurt I have caused."

However she then appeared to backtrack during a visit to The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.

She told him: "I feel, being black, when we talk about race it's a very different thing to me so I said I thought the Holocaust wasn't about race.

"And it made people very angry. I'm getting a lot of mail from folks and a lot of anger.

"But I thought it was a salient discussion because as a black person I think of race as being something that I can see."

She continued: "When you talk about being a racist, you can't call this racism.

"This was evil. This wasn't based on skin. You couldn't tell who was Jewish.

"You had to delve deeply and figure it out. My point is: they had to do the work.

"If the Klan is coming down the street and I'm standing with a Jewish friend: I'm going to run.

"But if my friend decides not to run, they'll get passed by most times.

"Because you can't tell who is Jewish. You don't know."

Michael Rapaport also slammed the actress for her comments adding: "Whoopi Goldberg, love you big fan - you went on your show and said the Holocaust wasn't about race. Yes it f*****g was! It was all and only about race! It was about 'kill the Jews. They're not white, they're Jewish."

Hearing her initial comments Piers Morgan wrote on Twitter: WTF? This is insane. The extermination of 6 million Jews wasn't about race???

"Will any rock stars or renegade royals now boycott Whoopi Goldberg and/or ABC for this dangerous misinformation?"

He later added: "and her efforts to ‘explain’ herself on Colbert last night were even worse. She seems to think racism is only possible if it involves skin colour."

Others on social media agreed urging Whoopi: "Some Holocaust education would do Whoopi a world of good."