Ian Blackford has claimed he received 12,000 emails of support from members of the public after he branded Boris Johnson a liar this week.

The SNP leader at Westminster was asked to leave the Commons chamber on Monday after he accused the Prime Minister of "misleading the House" - a collective name for MPs sitting in parliament - over the Partygate scandal.

Under strict Westminster rules, MPs cannot openly call each liars during debates.

Now Blackford has revealed the level of support he has received in the days since.

"It beggars belief that Mr Johnson can get away with lying, while MPs who state the obvious and challenge his behaviour are marched off the parliamentary estate by a man with a sword – a ludicrous spectacle from a bygone era," he told Metro Opinion.

"In the 24 hours since I was asked to leave the chamber, I’ve received over 12,000 supportive emails.

"The response I’ve had from my constituents, people across Scotland and the UK, proves the broken Westminster system couldn’t be more out of touch.

"The public believe Boris Johnson lied – and they want to see him held to account.

Blackford spoke out in the Commons after civil servant Sue Gray published a limited version of her report into Downing Street's lockdown parties.

Despite the restricted by a police probe, Gray criticised behaviour that she said was "difficult to justify" and which amounted to "serious" failures of leadership.

In the Commons, Johnson faced huge criticism from political opponents over the lockdown parties, including from Blackford.

Hoyle asked Blackford to confirm whether he had withdrawn claims that the Prime Minister had misled the House.

Blackford replied: “That the Prime Minister may have inadvertently misled the House.”

Sir Lindsay countered: “To help me help the House, you’ve withdrawn your earlier comment and replaced it with inadvertently?”

Blackford said: “It’s not my fault if the Prime Minister can’t be trusted to tell the truth.”

Amid raucous shouting from the Tory benches, the Speaker said: “Under the power given to me by standing order number 43 I order the honourable member to withdraw immediately from the House.”

To sign up to the Daily Record Politics newsletter, click here.