A thug who attacked a man as his victim tried to take refuge in a McDonalds in front of Sunday evening diners has been jailed for more than a year.

Liam Rodgerson, 29, together with another man, Jake Bain, 24, pursued 33-year-old Dean McGowan into the restaurant in Stirling city centre after "a verbal dispute" between them outside the city's Stirling Highland Hotel, Falkirk Sheriff Court was told.

The incident occurred about 10pm on a Sunday evening.

Prosecutor Kristina Kelly said: "They started to chase Mr McGowan into Baker Street, down King Street and into Murray Place where Mr McGowan took refuge in McDonalds.

"Both accused found him a short time later."

Bain immediately attacked Mr McGowan and punched him to the head and body in full view of staff and diners, and was then joined by Rodgerson who struck him in the back with his elbow.

Mr McGowan got up and staggered towards the tills, where Rogerson pushed him again to the ground. Both punched him repeatedly, and Bain also kicked him.

Bain then pushed him up against the condiment area and struck his head against the counter.

Police were called and found the attackers had fled and Mr McGowan was bleeding from a "large laceration" to the back of his head and also a cut to his forehead.

The court heard he had been left with a visible scar.

The two accused were spotted later in King Street, Stirling, and arrested.

Rodgerson, of Alloa, and Bain, of Clackmannan, pleaded guilty to assault causing injury and permanent disfigurement.

Defence agent Kelly Howe, for Rodgerson, said her client had been abusing alcohol and illicit substances and had little recollection of the incident.

Solicitor Stephen Morrison, for Bain, said: "To use the common parlance, the complainer [Mr McGowan] had been 'up for the verbals'."

Sheriff Christopher Shead said the incident had been "very grave". He added that Rodgerson had a record for assault.

He jailed Rodgerson for 13 and a half months.

Bain was sentenced to 225 hours unpaid work, placed under social work supervision for 18 months, and ordered to pay Mr McGowan £1500 compensation.