(Natural News) A lawsuit filed by Public Health and Medical Professionals for Transparency produced documents from Pfizer showing that its Wuhan coronavirus (Covid-19) “vaccine” caused all of the pregnant mothers on whom it was tested to miscarry.

Entitled, “Cumulative Analysis of Post-authorization Adverse Event Reports,” a report from Pfizer describing events reported up to February 2021 – you can download that report – shows that not a single pregnant woman who took the Pfizer jabs delivered a live baby.

Table 6 of the report, titled “Missing Information,” reveals under the first topic of “Use in pregnancy and lactation” the following statement:

“Pregnancy outcomes for the 270 pregnancies were reported as spontaneous abortion (23), outcome pending (5), premature birth with neonatal death, spontaneous abortion with intrauterine death (2 each), spontaneous abortion with neonatal death, and normal outcome (1 each). No outcome was provided for 238 pregnancies (note that 2 different outcomes were reported for each twin, and both were counted).”

take our poll - story continues below

Taken at face value, this would suggest that of 270 pregnancies, there were 23 spontaneous abortions, five “outcomes pending,” two premature births with neonatal death, two spontaneous abortions with intrauterine death, one spontaneous abortion with neonatal death, and one normal outcome. However, there is also that tricky statement: “no outcome was provided for 238 pregnancies.”

“So really we have no idea what happened with 243 (5 + 238) of the pregnancies of these injected women; they have just not been included in the report,” reported Principia Scientific International.

“What we do know is that of 27 reported pregnancies (270 subtract 243), there are 28 dead babies! This appears to mean that someone was pregnant with twins and that 100 percent of the unborn babies died.”

It is possible that the five “outcomes pending” may have resulted in a normal delivery. This means that, at best, only 87.5 percent of babies living inside “fully vaccinated” wombs died as opposed to 100 percent.

Either way, this is still a horrific outcome. No babies should be dying as a result of these injections if they are really “safe and effective” as claimed, and yet they appear to kill most or all unborn babies.

It turns out that Pfizer tried to cover this all up with an article called “Safety and Efficacy of the BNT162b2 mRNA Covid-19 Vaccine,” which was published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) on Dec. 31, 2020.

This paper tries to cover up the fact that in the first trimester of pregnancy, the Pfizer injection caused 82 percent of those who received it to miscarry. The Canadian Covid Care Alliance reported on this study the following month, exposing it as a total sham.

“The Pfizer-friendly study is a complete sham,” reported Principia Scientific International. “[I]t is replete with misrepresentation and deceptive methods.”

“These injections are criminal; period,” the group added, emphasizing the fact that nobody should be taking them.

The World Council for Health has put together a Cease and Desist Declaration that is being served to all governments, clinics, hospitals, medical regulatory bodies, doctors, nurses, politicians and “anyone participating in any way in the manufacture, shipping, distribution, promotion, or administration of these injections.”

“The message to anyone involved in these injection campaigns is ‘Stop now. This is a crime. You will be criminally and civilly responsible. The cat is out of the bag. Justice is coming,’” PSI explains about the initiative.

“Please keep photos and notes of to whom, when and where the declaration and notice is served. We are finalizing more resources on the World Council for Health web site to upload these photos and details.”

The latest news about injuries and deaths caused by Wuhan coronavirus (Covid-19) “vaccines” can be found at ChemicalViolence.com.
• Pfizer sweeps in to control the FDA and facilitate sweeping redactions of the court-ordered disclosure of their vaccine injury data
• Extensive analysis of trial data finds that Pfizer covid jab does “more harm than good”
• Evidence That Not As Many People Have Taken The Shot As You’re Told – Health Chiefs Extend Shelf-Life Of Pfizer COVID Shots By Two Weeks, Endangering Public More!
• Will Twitter ban Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla since he now says the jabs don’t work?

After two years I have regained my eyesight and I'm back. I have overcome my health issues thanks to prayers, perseverance and GOD! But my finances are in bad shape and I need help to get my children back (wife kicked me out). If you can help financially please click here. If money is tight, I'd still welcome prayers. Please.