Moon Alert: After 6 a.m. EST today (3 a.m. PST), there are no restrictions to shopping or important decisions. The Moon is in Pisces.

You are a peace-loving, diplomatic person who values home and family as much as your career. You are focused on achieving your objectives, which you do with a friendly approach. This year is an exciting year because it’s the beginning of a new nine-year cycle. Have the courage to explore new ideas and open new doors!

The stars show the kind of day you’ll have: 5-Dynamic; 4-Positive; 3-Average; 2-So-so; 1-Difficult

This is a marvelous day to enjoy the company of others. However, you also will enjoy time alone to seek metaphysical and spiritual insights. Today you will lead with your heart rather than your mind. Trust your feelings. Tonight: Relax.

This is a wonderful day to schmooze with others because you feel happy! Good feelings and generosity to everyone will be the order of the day. Because you feel confident and optimistic, this is an excellent day to think about your long-term goals for the future. Bounce your ideas off someone. Tonight: Be friendly.

Today you make a fabulous impression on bosses, parents, teachers and the police. They see you as wise, affluent and successful. (Well, the appearance of success is almost as strong as success itself!) You can use this to promote your best interests. Tonight: We see you.

Travel plans appeal to you today because you want to learn more and expand your experience of the world. Group activities, especially activities that involve other cultures and different countries, will appeal to you. Expect positive news related to medicine and legal matters. Tonight: Learn; study.

This is an excellent financial day for you. Keep your pockets open, because gifts, goodies, rewards and favors from others will come your way. You can definitely benefit from the wealth of others, including banks and lending institutions. Tonight: Check your finances.

Relations with those who are closest to you are warm and friendly today. People feel mutually generous to each other. It’s important to know that today is the kind of day where you will get what you give, especially in terms of kindness, friendship and nurturing support. Tonight: Meet someone new.

Work-related travel is likely for many of you today. Nevertheless, whatever happens, this is a happy, feel-good day for you. You will enjoy schmoozing with co-workers and clients. Group meetings and conferences will be positive. You might see ways to boost your income! Tonight: Plans change.

This is a marvelous, happy day for you! It’s the perfect day for a vacation. Take a long lunch or leave work early. You feel confident and comfortable dealing with others today, especially groups. Enjoy fun activities with children, sports events and a romantic rendezvous. Tonight: Protect your kids.

Invite the gang over for good food and drink, because this is a wonderful day to entertain at home. (Perhaps a meeting or congregation at home.) This get-together will be successful! Today people are generous, warm and, above all, not petty. Tonight: A sudden change at home.

Because you are in such a positive frame of mind today, your dealings with everyone will be upbeat and happy. You will be a role model for someone. They will admire your courageous optimism and friendly approach to others. It’s a good day to learn something new and enjoy the company of siblings. Tonight: Pay attention.

Business and commerce are favored today because people are optimistic and confident. You’re willing to take a chance and play a long shot because you sense this is a timely moment for financial speculation. And it is! Look for ways to boost your earnings. Tonight: Guard your assets.

Today you feel everything is all right and you have nothing to fear. That’s because the Moon is in your sign lined up with lucky Jupiter, while it is also dancing with fair Venus. This is a winning day for you! You will get whatever you give. Tonight: You’re restless.

Find more Georgia Nicols horoscopes at georgianicols.com.

 (c) 2022 by King Features Syndicate Inc.