No. 19 might have seemed as prestigious as Joe Sakic’s retired jersey hanging from the rafters at Ball Arena, but Sakic, the Avalanche legend and general manager, just missed watching Colorado extend its home winning streak to 19 games on Tuesday night.

The Avs blew a one-goal lead in the final minute of regulation and fell 3-2 to the Arizona Coyotes in a shootout. It was Colorado’s first loss at home since Nov. 3 when it fell 5-4 in overtime to the Columbus Blue Jackets.

The Coyotes’ Lawson Crouse scored at 19:22 of the third period with Arizona goalie Scott Wedgewood pulled for a sixth attacker, and Alex Galchenyuk beat Avs goalie Darcy Kuemper with the only goal of the shootout.

In addition to its 18-game home winning streak, Colorado (32-8-4) saw its 10-game losing streak end. But the club still increased its points streak to 17 games (15-0-2).

The Avs are just the fifth NHL team to win 18 straight on home ice.

“Whenever it was going to end it was going to (stink),” Avs captain Gabe Landeskog said. “Losing (stinks) no matter who it’s against, home or away or whatever. But the streak in itself, I guess that’s something that’s cool, once it’s all said and done, and you look back at the history books or whatever. But we just want to keep winning and keep putting ourselves in a good spot down the road here.”

Colorado was in a position to match the 1970-71 Bruins for the fourth-longest home win streak in NHL history.

“It was going to end at some point,” Avs coach Jared Bednar said of the home winning streak. “I wouldn’t like it when it ended at any point, but it is what it is. It’s a valuable point. We played hard. You’re not going to win all of them.”

The Avs, who were without top-line center Nathan MacKinnon for the third consecutive game because of a concussion/broken nose, will begin a nine-day break heading into this weekend’s All-Star Game in Las Vegas.

“I’m proud of our guys, what they’ve been doing how hard they’ve been playing. They’re due for a break and then we’ll reset and come back after and into a really tough schedule again,” said Bednar, who will coach the Central Division all-stars.

The Avs took a 2-1 lead into the second intermission. Mikko Rantanen produced his team-leading 24th goal of the season with 47 seconds remaining in the second period. It came on the transition from the Avs’ end, with Andre Burakovsky sending Rantanen a circle-to-circle pass and Rantanen beating Wedgewood through the goalie’s legs.

Colorado never trailed until the shootout came to a close. Nazem Kadri gave the Avs a 1-0 lead 2:42 into the second period with a terrific individual effort on an unassisted goal. He jumped on an Arizona turnover on the Coyotes’ end line, drove to the net from the left, skated around the crease, and lifted a backhander over Wedgewood after the goalie went down to the ice and was unable to slide with the play.

Arizona, which entered the game on a five-game losing streak, tied it when midway through the period when Galchenyuk lifted a backhand past Kuemper, who appeared to be screened by defenseman Erik Johnson.

Kuemper saw his 12-game winning streak at Ball Arena end. It stands as the longest streak for any goalie in team history.

“We know we’re a good team. We’re capable of a lot of things and we’ve been finding ways to win,” Rantanen said. “I think there’s still some things we can be better at, and especially now down the stretch. It’s kind of a tougher schedule for us with some tough games. So, obviously, we want to build up the season the way we have been and finish well before the playoffs.”

Footnotes. Avalanche rookie forward Alex Newhook was scratched because of a non-COVID illness. He was replaced by Dylan Sikura, who stepped in as the left winger on the second line. Sikura collected his first point with the Avs on Sunday with a game-winning assist against the Sabres. He was reassigned to the AHL’s Colorado Eagles on Monday, then recalled on Tuesday when Newhook became ill. Sikura is tied as the Eagles’ leading scorer with 31 points in 29 games. … The Avs finished 15-0-1 in January, tying the NHL record for the most wins and points (31) in a single month. Colorado also led the NHL in save percentage (.930) and goals-against average (2.19) during in January and Kuemper (eight victories) and Pavel Francouz (seven) became the second goaltending tandem in NHL history to each win seven games in a month. The first: Pittsburgh’s Marc-Andre Fleury (eight) and Tomas Vokoun (seven) in March 2013.