Some people, even if it’s only once in their lives, have tried to get rid of those unwanted extra pounds by playing a sport or engaging in physical activity. So, it’s important to be well-informed about how this actually works. It’s not just about finding the motivation to get off the couch and work out. There are several things to take into account when trying to lose weight. Some of them are the type of workout you’ll be doing, the duration, the intensity, and even your current weight. All of these things can have an effect on the number of calories you burn in every training session. That’s why Harvard University came up with a list that tells you how many calories you burn according to your weight in 30 minutes of practicing different sports and exercises.

Jumping rope is an activity that can be practiced at a very young age. We’re used to seeing kids doing this in the park or on the street. However, it can also be an excellent physical exercise when it comes to burning calories as an adult. You can jump rope as a part of your warm-up routine because it helps to improve your coordination and rhythm, strengthens your heart and lungs, and tones the muscles in your arms, legs, chest, and shoulders. Depending on what your weight is, this exercise burns a different amount of calories: 300 if you weigh 125 pounds, 372 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 444 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Depending on what type of technique you use, swimming can be one of the most complete sports that humans can practice. Practicing this sport has many benefits: it puts all the muscles in your body to work, improves your cognitive functions, and strengthens both your lungs and your heart. Being a low-impact sport, people can exercise longer without much effort and without experiencing joint or muscle pain. That is why it’s a safe activity for people who have suffered from injuries in the past or for pregnant women. When practicing this sport, depending on what your weight is, you burn 180 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 223 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 266 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Walking is one of the physical activities that people do many times a day, every day. When you go for a walk, you burn calories without even realizing that you are doing so. That’s what makes it an excellent option to lose weight. That, and the fact that most of the time it doesn’t really require any special type of equipment. Depending on what your weight is, walking at 3.5 mph burns a different amount of calories: 120 if you weigh 125 pounds, 149 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 178 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Soccer is a team sport where 11 team players play together against a rival team of 11 other players. Each player has a different position. Because the size of the field can vary, the amount of calories burnt while playing will depend on its size as well as the position that you play. For example, a goalkeeper burns fewer calories because of the obvious constraints of his or her position. Generally speaking, when playing soccer and depending on what your weight is, you burn 210 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 260 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 311 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Basketball is another team sport, however, in this case, there are only 5 players on each team. To calculate the number of calories burned by playing this sport, one should consider what the intensity of the particular match was and take into account the size of the court. Still, it should be kept in mind that unlike soccer, basketball is a sport that requires more contact, but in both games speed, coordination, and teamwork are essential to score and ultimately win the match. When playing basketball and depending on what your weight is, you burn 240 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 298 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 355 if you weigh 185 pounds.

The spinning bicycle or stationary bicycle is a great alternative to mountain biking. Thanks to this piece of equipment, you can enjoy the benefits of biking without the cardiovascular and joint impact that it can have. Whether you have enrolled in a gym class or you’ve decided to take on the challenge of biking from the comfort of your own home, keep the motivation up and do your daily training session with the help of this equipment. When using a stationary bicycle and depending on what your weight is and how vigorously you do the exercise, you burn 210 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 260 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 311 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Just like walking, running is a pretty straightforward activity that is accessible to many people. Generally speaking, you don’t need a lot of special equipment. A good pair of sneakers will take you a long way. You can go out to the park, to an athletic track, run on the street, or on a stationary treadmill. If you’ve never done much exercise or haven’t done it in a while, running is a good place to start getting back on track. Remember that the number of calories you burn will depend on how fast you are running. Depending on what your weight is, running at 5 mph burns a different amount of calories: 240 if you weigh 125 pounds, 298 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 355 if you weigh 185 pounds.

An elliptical trainer is a machine that allows you to practice aerobics without having to leave the spot where the equipment is set. The 2 pedals and the vertical bars help you make a movement that resembles Nordic skiing. You can work out at the gym or at home with the help of this equipment and start losing weight by burning calories in the process. When using an elliptical trainer and depending on what your weight is, you burn 270 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 335 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 400 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Tennis is a sport that can be played with just 2 players (singles) or with 2 couples (doubles). A given match of tennis has no fixed duration since the purpose of the game is to win 2 sets (the best of out of 3) or 3 sets (the best of 5). In fact, the longest match in the history of tennis lasted around 11 hours and 5 minutes. You can then imagine that the number of calories burned can vary a lot depending on the intensity and duration of the game. In half an hour of playing tennis, and depending on what your weight is, you burn 210 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 260 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 311 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Olympic weightlifting, mostly known as simply weightlifting is a strength sport that requires thorough and formal training by the athlete in question in order to do it safely. In addition to that, it requires great mental strength and uses all the muscles in the body. You need special equipment to practice this sport: a bar, discs, platforms, etc. Depending on what your weight is, when practicing weightlifting you’ll burn 90 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 112 simply 155 pounds, and 133 simply 185 pounds.

Hatha yoga is a specific type of yoga that focuses more on what is known as asanas or postures. The benefits of this practice include more elasticity and firmness of the muscles involved in the practice, as well as more awareness and control of breathing. In half an hour, depending on what your weight is, practicing hatha yoga burns a different amount of calories: 120 if you weigh 125 pounds, 149 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 178 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Dance uses body movements as a form of expression and social interaction. It has served as a form of communication, artistic expression, and physical activity for many years. Depending on the type of dance you practice, you will burn more or fewer calories. Harvard made its calculations with slow dancing, foxtrot, and waltz, which are styles that require fewer calories because of their slow and smooth movements. Depending on what your weight is, when dancing these styles you can burn a different amount of calories: 90 if you weigh 125 pounds, 112 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 133 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Volleyball is a team sport where each team consists of 6 players. Players can touch the ball with any part of their bodies. However, what makes volleyball so unique, and so different from basketball and soccer, for example, is that players have to keep changing their positions while they’re scoring points. This sport, besides burning calories, improves concentration, tones the muscles, and helps improve coordination. When you play volleyball you burn up to 90 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 112 if you weigh 155 pounds, and finally 133 if you weigh 185 pounds.

Aerobics are a type of gymnastics that incorporates music as part of the routine. As its name indicates, it is an aerobic exercise that strengthens physical capacities by working on rhythm, flexibility, coordination, orientation, etc. But in addition to that, it improves cardiovascular function and lung capacity. When practicing this physical activity, you burn different amounts of calories depending on your weight: 165 if you weigh 125 pounds, 205 if you weigh 155 pounds, and 244 if you weigh 185 pounds.

And last but not least, stationary rowing, where the main equipment is known as an ergometer, is a device that replicates rowing outdoors without you having to get into the water. That’s what makes it great: you don’t need a paddle or a canoe to practice the sport. In addition to that, it’s considered a pretty well-rounded sport, since it requires you to move several muscle groups. When you practice stationary rowing, you burn up to 210 calories if you weigh 125 pounds, 260 if you weigh 155 pounds, and finally 311 if you weigh 185 pounds.