For over a year now the left has tried to set the narrative on what happened on January 6th, 2021.

Everything that we are being told by the media about that day is a lie and there are few who are willing to stand up and tell the story of what really happened. Women for America First hosted the Save America rally at the Ellipse on January 6th and they are determined to let people know the truth about January 6th, despite Americans being persecuted for speaking out.

Women for America First has teamed up with award-winning actor, Nick Searcy, and inspiring filmmaker, Chris Burgard, to launch a series of special screenings of the most censored movie in America. The documentary film, Capitol Punishment, is told through the eyes of the people who were there on the ground and shares with the world the true story of January 6, 2021.

First up for the special screenings is Texas!

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

This Friday, February 4th just outside of Dallas in Irving, TX, Women for America First is hosting a VIP red carpet dinner and a movie at Mercury Studios. The special event will feature many VIP guests including:

The event begins at 6pm with a VIP reception for attendees to meet and mingle with the VIPs.

At 6:45pm, doors will open for general admission and feature a famous Texas BBQ dinner and full candy bar.

The screening of Capitol Punishment will begin at 7:30pm, followed by a riveting panel and Q&A of VIPs and those featured in the movie.

It’s of paramount importance to get the truth out to the millions of Americans who are being told January 6th was an insurrection by Trump supporters to try and stage a coup of the United States government. So invite a date or bring your friends and family for an informative and fun filled evening with like-minded patriots to view this must see film.

Future cities will be announced in the coming weeks of the tour.

Tickets are just $30 (cheaper than dinner and a movie!) and can be purchased at WFAF.org.