President Trump’s political action committees recently announced record-breaking fundraising numbers with an average donation of just $31 from over 1.6 million people.

On Monday, President Trump released a statement announcing over $122 million cash on hand and over $51 million raised in the second half of 2021.

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

President Trump’s continued and unprecedented pace of fundraising shows that the future of the Republican Party in 2022 and beyond remains, perhaps, the strongest in our Country’s history—the MAGA movement is here to stay! This massive fundraising accomplishment does not include the hundreds of millions of dollars raised by other candidates and organizations who use President Trump’s name, likeness, endorsement, and America First Agenda as a platform for their efforts, further strengthening the movement he began in 2016.

An average donation was $31 and more than 1.6 million people have donated to the 45th president. Trump’s PACs are funded mostly by everyday Americans with more than 98 percent of donors contributing less than $200 each.

Today, President Trump released another statement admonishing the fake news media for their refusal to talk about the remarkable grassroots fundraising numbers or the power of his endorsement.

President Trump: The Fake News Media has done everything in their power not to report the record setting $122 million that has been raised for Save America and publicly announced last night, they hate that I broke all records. The Failing New York Times refuses to acknowledge that the power of the Trump endorsement is far stronger today than ever before—it is virtually unblemished! Our Country can never be strong again unless we have an honest, open, and fair media and sadly, our media is largely fake and corrupt. The people of our Country demand the truth!

President Trump bashed the fake news media at his latest rally in Conroe, Texas, for their refusal to cover his enormous crowds.