Sen. Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) was hospitalized with a stroke last Thursday and operated on to ease brain swelling. Luján is expected to make a full recovery, however it has not been estimated when he might return to the 50-50 Senate. Luján’s office waited until Tuesday to inform the public with this statement:

Luján Statement on Hospitalization

 February 1, 2022

 Albuquerque, N.M. – Carlos Sanchez, Chief of Staff to U.S. Senator Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), issued the following statement: “Early Thursday morning, Senator Luján began experiencing dizziness and fatigue. He checked himself into Christus St. Vincent Regional Hospital in Santa Fe. He was then transferred to UNM Hospital in Albuquerque for further evaluation. Senator Luján was found to have suffered a stroke in the cerebellum, affecting his balance. As part of his treatment plan, he subsequently underwent decompressive surgery to ease swelling. “He is currently being cared for at UNM Hospital, resting comfortably, and expected to make a full recovery. The Senator’s offices remain open and will continue providing constituent services to all New Mexicans without any interruption. The Senator and his family would like to thank the wonderful doctors and staff at both UNM Hospital and Christus St. Vincent Regional Hospital for their excellent care during this time. Senator Luján looks forward to getting back to work for the people of New Mexico. At this time, he and his family would appreciate their privacy, and ask for your continued prayers and well wishes.”

TRENDING: Exclusive Letter from Oath Keepers Founder Stewart Rhodes at the Cimarron Prison and Correctional Facility in Oklahoma

Luján, 49, is in his first term in the Senate having been elected in 2020 after serving in the House from 2009-2021. Luján’s absence while he recovers could place the Democrat agenda and controversial Joe Biden nominees in limbo depending on how long his recovery takes. Joe Biden is set to nominate a Supreme Court nominee to replace retiring Justice Stephen Breyer. Kamala Harris’ tie breaking vote may not be able to be used if the 50 Republican senators stand united.

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) issued a statement on Lujan, “My thoughts are with Senator Ben Ray Luján and his family. I’m so glad to hear that he will make a full recovery. We look forward to his quick return to the Senate.”

Sen. Martin Heinrich (D) is the senior senator for New Mexico, having served since 2013.

This video of Luján speaking about his background is pinned at the top of his Twitter page.