Good morning. Boris Johnson won the election in 2019 because he was committed to getting “Brexit done” but, beyond that, a frequent criticism was that he had little idea of what he wanted to achieve for Britain. He has never been interested in the detail of public policy, and he has always been more of a slogan politician. But he did have a slogan, “levelling up”, around which an entire domestic policy agenda could be constructed, and last autumn Michael Gove was appointed levelling up secretary and given the task of fleshing out Johnson’s “vision”. Today he is publishing a 350-page white paper containing his answer.

My colleagues Heather Stewart and Josh Halliday have a good preview, based partly on a preview released by Gove’s department overnight. It’s here.

Never one to under-sell a government initiative, Johnson has described this as the most ambitious plan of its kind every seen. In a statement released last night he said:

From day one, the defining mission of this government has been to level up this country, to break the link between geography and destiny so that no matter where you live you have access to the same opportunities. It is the most comprehensive, ambitious plan of its kind that this country has ever seen and it will ensure that the government continues to rise to the challenge and deliver for the people of the UK.

But, in truth, every government at least since the 1960s has had some sort of regional strategy, and none of them have been powerful enough to prevent Britain having a worse record for regional inequality than almost any other comparable economy. From what we know so far about the white paper, which does not come with any funding not already announced by the government, it is not obvious that Johnson and Gove’s policies will be noticeably more transformative than their predecessors.

Last night Darren Jones, the Labour chair of the Commons business committee, said that the targets set in the white paper were essentially just a rehash of those in the industrial strategy drawn up by Theresa May that Johnson abandoned.

I will be covering a lot more reaction to the white paper as the day goes on, along with all the other politics on what promises to be a busy day. Here is the agenda.

9.30am: Andy Burnham, mayor of Greater Manchester, gives evidence to the Commons transport committee on the integrated transport plan.

10am: Priti Patel, the home secretary, gives evidence to the Commons home affairs committee.

After 12.30pm: Michael Gove, the levelling up secretary, gives a statement to MPs on levelling up white paper.

2pm: The ONS publishes the headline results from its weekly infection survey.

I try to monitor the comments below the line (BTL) but it is impossible to read them all. If you have a direct question, do include “Andrew” in it somewhere and I’m more likely to find it. I do try to answer questions, and if they are of general interest, I will post the question and reply above the line (ATL), although I can’t promise to do this for everyone.



If you want to attract my attention quickly, it is probably better to use Twitter. I’m on @AndrewSparrow.

Alternatively, you can email me at andrew.sparrow@theguardian.com