The home secretary, Priti Patel, has said Emmanuel Macron is wrong to say the UK’s immigration policy is encouraging people to risk their lives crossing the Channel from France.

The French president has said Britain’s migration system favours clandestine migration and does not allow for asylum seekers to seek legal ways into the country.

Asked about the comments by the Labour MP Diane Abbott while appearing before parliament’s home affairs select committee on Wednesday, Patel said: “Macron’s comments are wrong. They’re absolutely wrong.”

She said: “The entire French government – both the interior minister and President Macron – are fully aware through the very good work, actually, that our ambassador in Paris and her team does, in terms of number one:, the cooperation that we have to have with France to combat the dangerous and unnecessary crossings, dealing with illegal migration, but also working with like-minded partners across Europe. So, those comments are just wrong.”

Macron has said he will step up the pressure on Boris Johnson to establish a legal route to Britain for asylum seekers. The president, who is seeking re-election, said current rules encouraged illegal migration and did not allow for asylum seekers to seek lawful ways into the country, pushing people to attempt the treacherous crossing instead.

“The British continue to have a system from the 1980s which manages economic immigration through hypocrisy. There is no legal immigration route,” he said. “The British must articulate their needs in terms of the economy and reopen a path to legal asylum requests. We are going to step up the pressure.”

Tension between the French and UK governments has increased since the sinking of a dinghy in November last year led to the deaths of 27 people, with both countries placing the blame on the other.

Questioned by MPs about the reported use of Royal Navy vessels to stop people travelling across the Channel by boats, Patel said the role of the armed forces had not yet been established, and talks about their role had been ongoing since mid-January.

Patel also told the committee that the government was looking into making spiking a specific criminal offence, but she said not to “expect an announcement tomorrow” as there was work to be done to understand the phenomenon and its prevalence.

“I have asked my officials to look into what we know thus far with NPCC [the National Police Chiefs Council], how we can pursue offenders, but also how we can – and you’ll know that there are already a list of offences in terms of drugs that can be applied – but how we can prepare a specific criminal offence to target spiking directly,” she said. “So we are looking into this, absolutely, so we are working towards that, but it doesn’t mean tomorrow.”

Referring to revelations of misogyny, racism and homophobia among officers at Charing Cross police station, Patel said it “shows a failure of leadership in some quarters”.

She said confidence in the Met police had been shaken by a series of revelations in recent years, including that one of its officers was responsible for the abduction, rape and murder of Sarah Everard.

“We have seen now too many times, too many instances where in policing we just see … the most appalling behaviours, the most appalling conduct,” she said, adding that she would not rule out holding further inquiries into policing conduct.