University of Pennsylvania Associate Professor of Religious Studies and Africana Studies Anthea Butler launched a “Scholar Strike” for racial justice” on September 8 and 9. Hundreds of professors across the United States joined.

Some professors neglected to teach their classes and encouraged students to participate in alternative activities.

Over 3,000 Columbia students joined a strike demanding a 10 percent reduction in cost and a 10 percent increase in financial aid.

The students want the university to “alleviate the economic burden on students.”

The students want the removal of “student responsibility," referring to the amount of money the student is expected to contribute to their education through out-of-pocket pay or student employment.

One student claims that the Ivy League university is "vampirically sucking every drop of blood."

Nearly 800 Haverford students — over half of the undergraduate population — launched a strike after dissatisfaction over the administration’s response to the death of Walter Wallace, Jr.

The school encouraged students to avoid violent protests in nearby Philadelphia for their own safety. In response, students agreed to go on strike and issued a series of demands to the college.

Haverford agreed to continue paying student workers involved in the strike.

The Black Affinity Coalition at Swarthmore College began a strike on Nov. 11 as an “outcry against decades of violence which BIPOC, LGBTQ+, and disabled and neurodivergent students have suffered."

Concerned about “institutional anti-blackness at Swarthmore College,” the group sent a list of demands to the school’s president, which asked that the college “recognize, credit, and financially compensate the Black and Brown, gender-oppressed and FLI people involved in the creation” of the letter.

The students ended their strike after realizing that they were being affected by missing classwork.

Graduate students at the University of California Santa Cruz withheld the grades of undergraduates while protesting a cost of living adjustment.

Following the protest, the university fired over 70 of the graduate students, later reinstating 41 of the participants.

One student said that he was grateful to have regained his job, but told the university, "f**k you, pay us."

Follow the author of this article on Twitter: @BenZeisloft