Video of an individual screaming “slash Republican throats”prompted an investigation by police at Arizona State University. In February, video circulated on social media showing an individual screaming at a Students for Trump chapter tabling on campus.

The individual’s identity was not known and it was unclear if they were a student. The video was shared on social media by Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk.

After the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Professor Sarah Parcak at the University of Alabama-Birmingham took to social media to call conservatives “M*GA f*ckstick bootlicker.”

While commenting on the physical strength of RBG, Parcak posted, “RBG planked for a minute for multiple sets at AGE 86 and did tons of pushups. She was stronger in her mid 80’s than any M*GA f*ckstick bootlicker could ever dream of. Take that energy with you tonight and always into the voting booth, the polls, and online to donate.”

The university told Campus Reform that her comments “reflect poor judgment.”

The Harvard Crimson editorial board criticized the Harvard Republicans for endorsing President Donald Trump. The paper clarified that the group has the right to endorse whomever it prefers, but that it doesn't understand how the Republican club could support the president.

“Not only is it impossible to separate an endorsement of Trump from tacit approval of white supremacy, it’s impossible not to see this endorsement as a provocation that willfully belittles other students’ identity and disregards their safety.”

Kansas State University English Professor Philip Nel posted on social media, calling the GOP a “death cult” in response to churches being open during COVID-19.

“Local branch of death cult, aka @Kansas GOP, votes to exempt churches from quarantine rules, endangering the lives of us all. This leads me to a serious question.” Nel continued discussing the issue, asking if anyon had developed an app that will “track Republicans & other plague-spreaders.”

Nel also called Trump a “racist” with a "toxic" voice and “a deranged bloviator.”

Chinese state media contributor and associate professor at Grand Valley State University in Michigan Joel Wendland-Liu posted on social media that the GOP is starting to seem like a "terrorist organization."

“Is the Republican Party a terrorist organization? Starting to seem like it…especially since so few of them are actually denouncing right-wing terrorists right now who are openly supporting Trump.”

Campus Reform had previously reported on Wendland-Liu for contributing to, following, and retweeting Chinese propaganda outlets and Marxist organizations.

6. Penn prof says Republicans are ‘craven,’ ‘evil,’ calls ‘Trumpism’ a ‘virus’ of its own

University of Pennsylvania Professor Anthea Butler stated on social media that the Republican Party doesn’t care about tens of thousands of people dying, or about people who are "not White."

Butler also posted that the GOP isn’t a party but is an “ideology that has merged with the poisonous element of Trumpism” that will kill democracy and the country. She also stated that America is fighting COVID-19 along with, “a virus of racism, selfishness, and craven gain that is destroying our nation."

“That virus is Trumpism. Time to bring that virus of evil, stupid, asinine racism and self-aggrandizement to heel," Butler said.

[RELATED: STUDY: Over 90 percent of U Minnesota top faculty donations went to Dems]

Butler also discussed having to “get out in the streets” to avoid Republicans "coming to lock us all up.”

7. Prof on leave after saying in class she hopes Trump supporters ‘die before the election’

Biology professor at Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia, Jennifer Mosher, was put on administrative leave for stating that she hopes Trump supports die before the election. Mosher was discussing a rally for President Donald Trump where attendees weren’t wearing masks when she stated, “I’ve become the type of person where I hope they all get it and die.”

Mosher also called Trump supporters “bootlickers,” and stated, “You can’t argue with them, you can’t talk sense into them. I said to somebody yesterday, I hope they all die before the election. That’s the only saving hope I have right now.”

UC Berkeley's website stated that the GOP “works to suppress minority voting." The post explained various types of methods to allegedly suppress voting including voter ID laws and “barring felons from voting.”

[RELATED: University PD responds to backlash over picture with Blue Lives Matter flag in background]

A specialist in “democracy backsliding” at UC Berkeley stated claimed to Campus Reform that there is a “clearly documented” connection between Republicans and voter suppression.

During an event at Texas A&M University titled “What the Truth Sounds Like,” Ohio State University Professor Donna Ford stated that White females are a big problem in education. Ford continued by stating that she wouldn’t want Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas to teach her kids and that a variety of different skin colors isn’t enough in education.

In an interview with Campus Reform, Ford stated, “Just because a person, an educator is Black, does not mean they’re authentically Black and have racial pride, and that’s why for example I used Clarence Thomas." Ford also stated that there needs to be more mandated training on “equity, diversity, and inclusion."

Follow the author of this article: Haley Worth