Former President Trump Donald TrumpTrump: 'RINO' Graham 'wrong' on pardoning Jan. 6 rioters Jan. 6 panel probing Trump's role in effort to seize voting machines: report Overnight Energy & Environment — Virginia panel votes down Wheeler MORE in a new interview called Sen. Lindsey Graham Lindsey Olin GrahamTrump: 'RINO' Graham 'wrong' on pardoning Jan. 6 rioters On The Money — Layoff rate hit record low in December Hillicon Valley — Presented by Cisco — Spotify faces critics over Rogan controversy MORE (R-S.C.) a “RINO” and said the Republican senator was “wrong” to say that pardoning those who took part in the Jan. 6 insurrection was "inappropriate."

Trump made his comments during an interview with Newsmax aired Tuesday night. The former president was responding to remarks Graham, a longtime Trump ally, made on CBS' "Face the Nation" on Sunday.

During Graham's Sunday show appearance, a clip was played of Trump telling attendees at a rally in Texas that if he ran and won the presidency again, he would “treat those people from Jan. 6 fairly” and give out pardons if need be.

When Graham was asked if he agreed, he replied, “No, I don't want to send any signal that it was OK to defile the Capitol.”

“I think it's inappropriate. ... I don't want to do anything that would make this more likely in the future,” he later added.

Trump was then asked in his interview on Newsmax what he thought of Graham's comments.

"You talked about the potential, if it's appropriate, of pardoning some of the January 6ers," Newsmax’s Rob Schmitt asked the former president. "Lindsey Graham said a couple days later, he thinks that's inappropriate. What do you think?"

"Well, Lindsey Graham's wrong. I mean, Lindsey's a nice guy, but he's a RINO. Lindsey's wrong,” Trump said, using the acronym for “Republican In Name Only.”

"Lindsey Graham doesn't know what the hell he's talking about if he says that," Trump added later in the interview.

However, Graham is not the only Republican to disagree with pardoning those who participated in the Jan. 6 riot.

"I would not be in favor of shortening any of the sentences for any of the people who pleaded guilty to crimes," Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellTrump: 'RINO' Graham 'wrong' on pardoning Jan. 6 rioters Briahna Joy Gray: Biden's Supreme Court promise 'bare minimum' gesture to Black voters GOP can't escape Trump-fueled election controversies MORE (R-Ky.) told reporters on Tuesday.

“The election of 2020 was decided Dec. 14 of 2020 when the Electoral College certified the winner of the election. What we saw here on January the 6th was an effort to prevent the peaceful transfer of power from one administration to another, which has never happened before in our country,” he added.

Though McConnell has at times drawn the ire of Trump, and has been referred to as a “RINO” by the former president, Graham is considered one of Trump’s closest allies in the Senate.

But the comments illustrate the delicate balance that GOP members are trying to maintain with Trump while also condemning the violence that took place over a year ago at the Capitol.

The Hill has reached out to Graham’s office for comment.