Whoopi Goldberg Whoopi GoldbergWhoopi Goldberg suspended from 'The View' over Holocaust remarks Batya Ungar-Sargon discusses Whoopi Goldberg's controversial comments 'The View' invites ADL chief on after Whoopi Goldberg's Holocaust comments MORE has been suspended from ABC's "The View" for two weeks following her comments on the Holocaust.

“Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments. While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments,” Kim Godwin, president of ABC News, said in a statement.

“The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities,” she added.

The announcement followed one day after Goldberg told her co-hosts on the show that the Holocaust was “not about race” as they were discussing the Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel “Maus” and the decision to remove it by a Tennessee school board from a curriculum for eighth grade language arts.

"If you're going to do this, then let's be truthful about it," Goldberg said on Monday during the discussion. "Because the Holocaust isn't about race. No, it's not about race."

"But these are two groups of white people," Goldberg cut in. "But you're missing the point. The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley. Let's talk about it for what it is. It's how people treat each other. It's a problem. It doesn't matter if you're Black or white because Black, white, Jews ... everybody eats each other."

Goldberg later apologized on social media after she received backlash for the comments.

"On today's show, I said the Holocaust 'is not about race, but about man's inhumanity to man.' I should have said it is about both. As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, 'The Holocaust was about the Nazi's sympathetic annihilation of the Jewish people - who they deemed the inferior race.' I stand corrected," she said in a statement posted to Twitter.

"The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I'm sorry for the hurt I have caused," she added.