Michael Gove has defended Boris Johnson over his controversial Jimmy Savile comments today, saying he has nothing to apologise for.

Victims of prolific sex offender Savile have called on the prime minister to withdraw a baseless slur he made against Sir Keir Starmer in the Commons on Monday.

Johnson attacked the Labour leader during a debate on the partygate scandal, accusing him of “failing to prosecute Jimmy Savile” while he was director of public prosecutions.

Conservative MPs have called on the beleaguered prime minister to withdraw the comment - including former cabinet minister Julian Smith who said it was an indefensible accusation to make. Tory MP Sir Bob Neill agreed, saying: “This suggestion is baseless and unworthy.”

And today one of Johnson’s most senior cabinet ministers Michael Gove went one step further saying the PM has nothing to apologise for.

He added: “I think this is a uniquely sensitive issue and it does need to be handled with care, and I listen with enormous respect to those who act for victims of the actions of a terrible, terrible criminal.

“But – and it’s not a subject that I want to dwell on because it is uniquely sensitive – it is the case that the CPS apologised for the handling of this case and what happened in 2009, and I think we should acknowledge that an apology was given at the time and respect that.”

He added: “Keir Starmer acknowledged that mistakes had been made by the organisation of which he was head, to his credit. He was very clear about those mistakes.”

Richard Scorer, head of abuse and public inquiries at law firm Slater and Gordon, said his clients were “appalled and disgusted” at baseless comments made by the PM.

“It’s obviously not true. But he does it because he doesn’t understand honesty and integrity,” Starmer added.

Hoyle said he was disappointed about the state of the discourse, but added: “I am far from satisfied that the comments in question were appropriate on this occasion.

“I want to see more compassionate, reasonable politics in this house and these sort of comments can only inflame opinions.”

Two other cabinet ministers have rowed in to defend Johnson including deputy prime minister Dominic Raab who said it was part of the “cut and thrust of parliamentary debates and exchanges” but said he was not prepared to repeat the allegation.