She’s also been at the centre of plenty of laughs, and when she teased that Rock’s planned Bat mitzvah was being turned into a “they” mitzvah, it put such a smile on our face, as it felt so true to Charlotte. We’re really hoping that a lot of the finale is taken up by Rock’s big day… and that Charlotte goes with a florist she can trust, to avoid any “you’re dead let’s disco” throwbacks.

More of the new characters together

With Nya and LTW getting to know each other, Andre feeling broody after seeing Herbert with his kids and Seema… well, Seema doing absolutely nothing and smoking outside throughout, it all felt so natural. It also gave viewers an opportunity to learn more about characters AJLT hasn’t always made it easy to get to know.

We’re going to be honest, we still can’t really decide how we feel about Che and Miranda as an item. Obviously, we want Miranda to be happy, but our mixed emotions towards Che “I’ve Done A Ton Of Weed” Diaz, our enduring love for Steve and the way their romance first came about have made it difficult to root for them.

Still, polarising as the storyline has been among fans of the original Sex And The City franchise, it’s been a major part of AJLT, and it deserves a resolution one way or another. Preferably one that feels fitting for Miranda, who it has to be said has had some pretty out-of-character moments across the season.

Steve getting his own happy ending (whatever that entails)

So when we’re saying we want a “happy ending” for Steve, we’re not necessarily talking about a reconciliation for him and Miranda. When he told Carrie last week that he was “never” taking his wedding ring off, our heart broke for him a little bit, and he’s not a character we enjoy seeing so downcast. Someone get Debbie and her acrylics on speed dial, quick…

More of Seema and her new man

Obviously, not every single character in a TV show needs to end up in a romantic relationship for them to get their own version of a “happy ending”, but Seema has been very upfront about the fact that’s something she wants in her life. Plus, the club owner she was seen flirting with at the end of last week’s episode seemed more than a match for her. More of that, please!

To clarify – we don’t want Carrie rushing into a full-blown committed relationship or anything (particularly as, let’s be honest, single Carrie was always more fun than in-a-relationship Carrie). But she does finally seem ready to date, and if she’s going to date anyone, we’d like it to be Peter, who not only seems lovely, but also understands her unique situation having lost his wife to cancer. Mebs go easy on the Cosmos this time around, though, yeah?

We agree that having Carrie lose her husband and oldest friend within the same series would probably have been too much. But the way Stanford ended up being written out of the show – throwing a hissy fit and sulking off to Tokyo, never to be mentioned again apart from disparagingly by his estranged husband, who has thrown himself headfirst into the dating scene – feels disrespectful to a character fans have known and loved for 20 years.

At this point we’ll be getting appearances from Carrie’s old pal Skipper and funky-tasting-spunk guy before her literal ex-fiancé rocks up. To quote Charlotte herself: “I’m exhausted, where is he?”. And more to the point, with only one episode to go, how exactly is he going to fit into all of the action? We’re excited to find out… as long as his arrival isn’t part of some last-ditch attempt to throw him back together with Carrie, that is.