Quitter’s day has been and gone, and if you were one of the 16 per cent of Britons to set a New Year’s resolution for 2022, the familiar inertia of daily life will likely have already returned, with no positive changes in place. Don’t feel bad about it, though. You can cut yourself a break, because you are more likely to have success implementing changes at any other time of the year than January.

Now might be the time to revisit those goals you dreamed of achieving this year. But we’d only encourage so if those ambitions are rooted in compassion, kindness and healing – self-love before self-improvement. Those in need of guidance might look to self-care books. Such titles offer advice, bring clarity and provide practical tips that can help get you to where you need to be.

Time spent reading them should be inspirational and motivating, not frustrating or self-pity inducing, as can be the case with some self-help books. They should support you in setting and working towards achievable, realistic goals, and there could be an element of reward, which could even be feeling good about yourself for taking the time to read.

Whatever you feel you need to do this year to live your best life, we’ve got you covered with these self-care books that will guide you through the process.

We think we’ve got almost everything covered, including developing self-love, exploring spirituality, healing trauma, combatting stress and even having more fun. Every book we’ve included has been read and reviewed by our testers for their key messages, reading pleasure, practical tools and effectiveness at helping to nurture self-care. Get ready to be uplifted, start feeling good and discover an unconditional love for yourself.

The best self-care books for 2022 are:

If the last couple of years has taught us anything, it should be that time and care for ourselves and those close to us should always be the number one priority. That doesn’t always have to mean being stuffy and serious, though. Space for laughing, joy and playfulness is among the kindest things we can give ourselves, as The Power of Fun shows. The book is an inspiration, and the practical advice it holds will guide you out of the darkness and into happiness. If you’re looking for something more interactive, we’d highly recommend Get Untamed: The Journal, which will help you live your best life, unapologetically. For the latest discounts on audiobooks, try the link below: Check out Adele’s favourite self-help book in our round-up of must-read self-care titles

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.