Conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza just dropped a trailer to his monumentally important, new documentary, a film called “2,000 Mules.” If you’re standing up and haven’t watched it yet, you might want to sit down. It’s epic:

It might just be the coolest trailer of all time. If not, it’s certainly better than whatever Team Brandon has released.

The trailer begins with Democrats like Chuck Schumer and Brandon saying just how secure the 2020 election was, their empty statements echoing across the ominous screen as a man appears and pours ballots into a dropbox.

Then, with Brandon’s voice thankfully dimming, Dinesh’s voice crackles and replaces it. As footage of the so-called “mule” dumping ballots into the dropbox rolls, the viewer can hear Dinesh say “This one ‘mule’ made 53 journeys to 20 drop containers.”

But it doesn’t stop there. Just as the events surrounding the most secure election in American history didn’t stop there. It continues rolling the camera zooming out over a mock city with red dots representing drop boxes and lines representing the routes mules took to dump ballots into them.

As the viewer grasps the scale of the operation involved in just one town, the camera zooms back in, focusing on what looks like highly suspicious footage of ballot mules stuffing ballots into drop boxes. As that sickening footage plays, Dinesh continues narrating, slowly and confidently saying:

“He’s not alone. We tracked 2,000 mules making multiple ballot drops. Leaving no fingerprints. Snapping photos to get paid. A coordinated ring of illegal vote harvesting in all the key states where the election was decided.”

It ends with Dinesh saying “Game over.” Game over indeed, because this documentary looks like it’s going to blow the leftist narrative about 2020 out of the water.

It’s amazing, and comes out as scrutiny of the 2020 election continues as the country ramps up for the 2022 midterms. Dinesh has truly done us a service by creating a documentary about a subject that many surely would have preferred to stay hidden, off away in the dark where revelations about it can’t

But though Dinesh is a “yuge” name in the conservative media space, a bigger, even more important name just stepped into the picture and threw his massive influence behind supporting the critical, and sure to be censored, documentary.

That would be former President Trump, who released a “Save America” statement in support of the upcoming documentary.

In the statement, one that will surely infuriate the establishment media and social media censors, President Trump says “Highly respected Dinesh D’Souza, working together with Catherine Engelbrecht of True the Vote, just released a trailer to their new movie, ‘2,000 Mules“‘ before going on to echo many claims he and others, such as Mike Lindell, have made about the safety and security of the 2020 election.

Without Trump’s support and statement bringing attention to it, the leftists and RINOs might have been able to keep “2,000 Mules” somewhat suppressed.

By stopping discussion of it in the media, censoring sharing of it on social media platforms, and going after anyone that watched it and voiced concerns about the 2020 election, they might have been able to suppress it enough to stop it from making a major impact.

Not now! With President Trump having given one of his signature thumbs up to the project and, yet better, told all the patriots on his mailing list about it, the documentary has a chance of blowing right past the censors and educating the public about the truth of certain processes and tactics used during the 2020 election.

By: Gen Z Conservative, editor of GenZConservative.com. Follow me on Parler and Gettr.