Shields Green is one of the men who had joined John Brown’s raid, Black man. And his nickname was Emperor. Part of why I’m so fascinated by him is that he has this fragmented story. And the details about him reveal a good deal about how he was seen. Frederick Douglass talked about his speech impediment. There is this description of him as having been very illiterate and very Black, and that he was disturbing because he was so, quote unquote, Black and also had this incredible dignity and self-possession and joined John Brown’s raid and was killed and then was dissected essentially. And so his body becomes this figure in history even though his story is relatively incomplete. And among the people who he took hostage were relatives of Jefferson. And so here’s this historical figure who is not really recounted fully. He’s just engaged with suggestively, but he’s obviously at the crossroads of history. So he was an example and also a way to think about, how do you engage with that which hasn’t been preserved carefully, the incomplete puzzle as it were? One of the things people often talk about is that in African American genealogy is the wall of 1870. Because before 1870, slave registers didn’t mention names and people say, “oh, it was because enslaved people weren’t considered human.” But if you look at runaway notices, it becomes very clear that that’s not true. They are remarkably detailed. They’ll talk about scars and height and texture of hair and body shape. Enslaved people were known intimately, were recognized as humans. So the decision not to record them is actually a much more aggressive act than just disregard or considering them not human. It’s actually a statement that we are not counting you, not that you aren’t present— and I think, for me, that is a really important historical lesson. It’s easier to say, oh, well people of their time, they just didn’t think this was important or that was important. No, they did recognize humans in their midst, whether they’re Indigenous or African in origin, and made a decision to discount them. And we need that lesson because we are always confronted with the issue of who we are discounting, whether it’s people who live on the street or people who are in detention. Understanding that route, I think, is important for raising the serious ethical questions. And that’s the debate I would love for us to be able to have with young people, to have that conversation.

Hey, Pamela. So I have good news, which I know is always fun and surprising, when I come on with good news. We got the latest sales figures from the Association of American Publishers this week. And it showed really strong sales for 2021, which was quite encouraging, because 2020 was such a good year for publishers. I think people were expecting things to level off, maybe even dip a little bit after people got vaccinated and started going out a little more. Of course, we’re still in a pandemic, so things haven’t fully been returned to normal on the retail front. But the figures were really strong. It showed that overall, sales were up almost 12 percent for the calendar year. And they were up in pretty much every format, except for e-books. Hardback sales were up 11 percent. Paperbacks were up 18.8 percent, which is really quite a big jump. And even mass market, a format that has been struggling for a while, was up a little bit. So in terms of digital formats, e-books were down almost 5 percent. And that’s not too surprising. They’ve been falling for several years now. And they did rise during the pandemic, when people couldn’t get print books because of supply chain issues or because stores were closed. You saw people turning to e-books. But now people seem to be returning to print more, and so those sales fell. Digital audio was way up, as it has been for almost every quarter every single year for several years. So digital audio was up 13 percent. What’s interesting to me right now is that people seem to be reading in all kinds of ways. When e-books were growing really rapidly several years ago, there was this fear that they were cannibalizing print sales. And you did see that to a certain extent. And so publishers were planning on this digital future. With the audiobook boom, it is not cannibalizing print. It seems like either people are listening to more audiobooks and reading more in print. Maybe they’re buying their favorite authors in both formats because they like to listen while they’re cooking or in the car and then read in print later. So that is a huge, I think, positive development for the industry, to see the growth of this format and to see it not only not taking away from print but maybe bolstering it in some fashion. So the other positive development last year compared to 2020 was that bookstores also had a much better year. After a really devastating 2020, bookstore sales were up in 2021 according to the Census Bureau. So we’re seeing some stability. There’s still obviously questions about supply chain. That’s still a big problem, not just for publishing, but for every retail sector in every industry. There’s shipping containers that are stuck in ports full of books that were printed in Asia. And there’s still books getting their pub dates moved. There’s still issues at printing presses where the capacity is either really, really tight or overstretched. So that’s something I think that there’s not really a quick solution for, and I’ll be interested to see how publishers handle it this year.

From Anne Frank to a novel set in an abandoned pornography store. I reviewed John Darnielle’s new novel. John Darnielle, if that name sounds familiar, is the singer-songwriter behind the indie band Mountain Goats, which has been around since about 1995. It’s funny, I’m not a big Mountain Goats guy. Although, you’d think I would be. It’s one of those— I have this big pile of things that I lump into this folder that I call “things that I really should like but I don’t.” And the Mountain Goats are slightly— I mean, I don’t dislike them. They’ve just never been a thing for me. But John Darnielle has become a really, really interesting novelist. His career as a fiction writer began in 2008. He wrote— I think some listeners will know there’s this series of small books about individual albums called the 33 and 1/3 series. And he wrote a book for that series. They’re just short nonfiction books about specific albums. And he wrote one about this Black Sabbath album. And instead of writing a typical book for that series, he wrote a little novel, a little novella, about a young man who was into Black Sabbath, and it really worked. And over the course now of four books, he explores these worlds. He’s very interested in the alternative cultural universes of science fiction and fantasy and the occult, but his novels don’t read like genre fiction. They don’t feel like you’re reading science fiction or fantasy. They fly very low to the earth. They’re very almost Knausgaardian in their simplicity. But he’s interested in young men and women who are troubled often and have an interest in these genres. So at any rate, that’s the prologue to— a prologue to his new book, which is called “Devil House,” which I think is terrific. It’s about this true crime writer who moves into a house in nowheresville California, where a horrific crime had occurred 20 years before. And the crime had become wrapped in myth. It happened— there was this abandoned porn store that these teenagers began hanging out in. And they slowly redecorated the place and put pentagrams and cut up all the VHS boxes and made it look really Luciferian. They turned it into this devil house just for fun, for kicks. And then one day the landlord walks in with a prospective buyer, and those two people end up getting murdered. And I don’t want to say a lot more about what happened in this book because it’s really complicated about the nature of storytelling. The author, the true crime writer who moves in, is kind of— he has enough sense of ethics and morality to know that what he’s doing, and in many of his previous books, selling people out and exposing things about people’s lives, that are sometimes good people that they might not want to have seen exposed. As the book goes on, many other stories are wrapped into it as he tries to explore this story. And it becomes a book about the nature of storytelling and also about true crime.