I’d like to revisit the cover of the Economist for 2022 and see if anyone else sees some things that might have been missed back in November when another OP posted their original thread (linked at bottom).

While looking at the cover a few things stood out to me.

1. Middle bottom right is a white object that looks similar to the particles found in the vax.

2. Next to #1 is a syringe filled with blood, blood clots?

3. Top right hand corner is a graph that looks similar to and EKG with elevated ST waves indicating a heart attack. I haven’t worked telemetry in years however so I may be off, maybe someone more well versed at EKGs can chime in? Def looks like a PQRST rhythm to me.

4. Opposite #4 bottom left is a graph that looks like potential stock market graph?

5. Above #4 inside thr spiked protein mid upper left on pic is another graph couod indicate a spike in cases or deaths?

7. Mid left a wind turbine possibly to indicate a problem with the power grid.

8. Upper left, upside down microscope could be a periscope for a submarine or military guns.

10. Several places you will find a shape similar to a honeycomb, graphene oxide is a 6 sided molecule that clusters the same way as on the cover.

11. Mid right microscope looks like an anti aircraft machine.

12. On left and right behind syringes it appears thetr is an oil rig.

13. Bottom right cistern has white on it that looks like it’s a snowy mountain top.

14. There is a number line going north south east and west with specific coordinates marked with arrows. Possible dates?

15. Vax syringe has red dots leading to the blood filled syringe, possibly indicating clot shot.

I’m sure thetr is more I’m missing. I don’t have a printer right now but am interested to see if the page is printed and folded so it matches to show a pattern with Biden, xi, and the two microscopes then opposite side the spiked protien and cisterns….interested to see what that might reveal as thetr are potential clues in pieces needing to be put together like a puzzle.

Just wanted to throw this out for discussion and see if anyone else sees anything not seen before. FYI I haven’t read the original post from November so idk if this has been covered or not.