What’s the joke going around? “If Justin Trudeau steps outside and sees a trucker, he’s got six more weeks underground.”

Trudeau Called Out for His Hypocrisy

You know, Justin Trudeau. He’s the Canadian Prime Minister who calls the truckers involved in the historic Freedom Convoy “racist.”

Well, now a conservative member of Canadian Parliament is calling on Trudeau to apologize for his “hateful rhetoric” demeaning “patriotic, peace-loving Canadians.” Conservative party MP Candice Bergen — not to be confused with the American actress Candace Bergen — also reminded the House of Commons of Trudeau’s history of wearing “blackface more times than he can remember.”

Shocker. Not. Lockdowns Did Nothing to Impact COVID Death Numbers

Remember at the end of My Cousin Vinny, when defense lawyer Vinny asks a question of a prosecution witness that will show conclusively his cousin is innocent? He encourages the witness, “C’mon. You can say it. It’s okay. They (the jury) know.”

Sort of the feeling you get reading this headline from the Epoch Times, “Lockdowns Had ‘Little to No Public Health Effect,’ Analysis of 24 Studies Concludes.”

That’s okay. We, the American people, know.

The analysis of the studies demonstrated that the lockdowns had little or no effect on mortality.

As similar story when it comes to masks. We’ve just put up a fascinating new piece from Just the Facts, “Coming to Grips With the Facts About Masks.” A sample line from new research: “most of the masks worn by most kids for most of the pandemic have likely done nothing to change the velocity or trajectory of the virus.”

Dan Bongino just got booted from YouTube for saying the same thing being said by an increasing number of researchers and even the liberal magazine The Atlantic.

Shocker. Not. Add Neil Young’s CSNY Bandmate Graham Nash to List of Those Determined to Cancel Joe Rogan

Graham Nash of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young fame (and The Hollies) is the latest to pull his music from Spotify over Spotify’s refusal to cancel podcaster Joe Rogan. Even after Rogan and Spotify announced advisory labels would be put on any COVID-related content, and Spotify going out of its way to point listeners to information in line with the medical establishment. No, Spotify, you can’t compromise with Cancel Culture.

Tulsi Gabbard has a great phrase for it. “Zealots of Wokism.” Tweeted Gabbard Tuesday morning: “I get the feeling some people are using @joerogan’s COVID interview as a pretext to silence his voice because he’s not woke. Zealots of wokism try to censor voices who do not agree with theirs, because they fear the absurdity and weakness of their positions will be exposed.”

Further evidence the White House put the squeeze on Justice Stephen Breyer. Sen. Dick Durbin has spilled the beans that Biden Chief-of-Staff Ron Klain had told a “limited number of people” on Capitol Hill that Breyer was going to announce his retirement. That news was leaked within the hour, taking the announcement out of Breyer’s hands. Breyer was not happy.

Durbin says he got a call from Klain. The first time he’s ever gotten a call from the Chief-of-Staff.

You know the game Klain was playing. Tell Capitol Hill, knowing it would leak and force Breyer’s hand. The announcement marked the end of a year-long campaign from Biden allies on the Hill and media to pressure Breyer to retire, so Biden could name a young progressive to the High Court. Breyer resisted the pressure last year, but decided to hang up his robe after this term. Assuming a new nominee is confirmed.

This may look like a little story, but it symbolizes how this conniving White House operates.

After 22 seasons, Tom Brady realizes that hanging out with a supermodel wife and adorable kids is more fun than being ground into the turf by 300-pound linemen. Yes, the NFL’s GOAT made it official Tuesday. He’s hanging up his cleats after seven Super Bowl wins.

Oddly enough, Brady’s statement made no mention of the Patriots, the team he led for 20 seasons. Seems the hot dog vendors for the Buccaneers got more of the love than Patriots coach Bill Belichick.

Helmets off to the New York Jets, for greeting the news of Brady’s retirement with humor.

They went onto tweet a sentiment shared by other NFL teams. “We may not miss seeing you on the field, but the entire football world will.”

What’s Brady going to do? Well, there is that opening on the Supreme Court. I mean, reading the Constitution at your leisure is a lot easier than reading modern-day defenses in a blink of an eye.

Thanks to Inflation, Super Bowl Party Yummies Will Cost 14% More This Year

The Bills didn’t make it to the Super Bowl. But larger grocery bills did. Thank you, inflation.

According to a new analysis from Wells Fargo, the cost of such things as wings, pizzas and other party foods are will be between 8%-14% more expensive this year. Thankfully, chips are only up about 1%. Same with guacamole/avocados. Salsa, on the other hand, is up 6%.

Unfortunately, according to Well Fargo’s Michael Swanson, “proteins, especially steak, hamburgers and chicken wings, it’s going to be very expensive this year.” Boneless chicken wings are up 26%. Bone-in is little better at 14%.

Two-liter bottles of soda will run you about 12% more. And beer? The brewskies are up about 4%.

A petition has been started to keep record-shattering transgender swimmer Lia Thomas from next month’s NCAA swimming championships. Nolan Lewallen asks “Should We Back the Petition?” Nolan has a personal interest in the question. His wife was forced to compete against juiced East German swimmers in the 1984 Olympics.

Al Perrotta is the Managing Editor of The Stream, chief barista for The Morning Brew and co-author, with John Zmirak, of The Politically Incorrect Guide to Immigration. You can follow him at @StreamingAl at Gab, Parler, MeWe and now GETTR.