THIS is the dramatic moment officers hunted down a vilent thug 24 hours after he brutally murdered his ex-grilfriend and her young autistic son.

Daniel Boulton, 30, stabbed Bethany Vincent, 26, and her nine-year-old son Darren “DJ” Henson “numerous times” at her home in Louth, Lincs.

Boulton led the cops on a 24-hour manhunt after the slayings before stabbing an off-duty police officer in the leg when they tried to apprehend him.

Police have now released fotoage from a helicopter whichs hows the moment that he darts into the farmyard in an attempt to avoid police.

He slows down to a walk at a barn door before he climbs a fence, and is then cornered by armed cops.

Bodycam footage of the killer being put into a police van shows him telling a cop: "I know I'm an evil b*****d but can you get me some water please?"

He had pleaded guilty to two counts of manslaughter, but denied murdering the mum and son in 2020 - claiming he was on "autopilot".

The twisted killer also entered a guilty plea to assaulting PC Stephen Dennis with intent to resist arrest the day after the killings and burgling an empty cottage at Hubbards Hill.

A jury at Lincoln Crown Court yesterday found him guilty of murdering the mum and son, and he will be sentenced for the double slaying later today.

In the hours before the double slaying Boulton "loitered" outside of her home for hours, after walking 28 miles to reach her.

He sent Bethany a message on the day of the killings saying"nightmare on Holme street", and launched into the attack because he thought autrims was "contagious".

The court heard that Bethany had a restraining order against Boulton at the time of her death after a complaint to police in November 2019.

A further restraining order was made after another incident in February 2021 but Boulton continued to show up at Bethany's home and message her.

Jurors were told social services were involved with the family after Bethany first reported Boulton for domestic violence in November 2020.

He was ordered not to contact his ex, but “repeatedly broke” the order, sending her nearly 900 messaged on Facebook the weekend before the attack.

Prosecutor Katherine Goddard QC told the court that he had also developed a "hatred" for Darren, who had autism.

He also threatened to “wipe out” the blood line of her family before launching into the violent attack.

On the day of the attack he walked 28 miles to her home where he repeatedly stabbed the pair.

Police found Bethany lying in the front room and Darren on the floor of his bedroom, with both suffering stab wounds and blunt force trauma.

The family had been set to move to an address that Boulton was not aware of just days after the attack.

A nine-month-old baby was also found crawling around the house alone, and was “clearly distressed” but physically unharmed.

After launching into the callous attack, Boulton calmly left the scene before spending the night on the run.

He broke into an empty cottage where he stole some alcohol, clothing and food and left a note saying "I, Daniel Boulton, take full responsibility".

The following day he was discovered by of duty cop Stephen Dennis who tried to detain him but was stabbed in the leg.

He fled PC Dennis, but was later cornered in a barn and tasered after trying to get some of the armed officers to shoot him, the court heard.

Justice Pepperall told the jury that they would be excused from jury service for five years after the "extremely distressing" trial full of "real horrors."