ANY mum knows that keeping kids fed and watered is an expensive business.

But for mum of 10 Alicia Dougherty - the bill is larger than most.

Alicia - the matriarch of the Dougherty Dozen - frequently updates her TikTok with videos of her family life, including her very pricey trips to the grocery store.

Sharing her latest visit to the store on her TikTok page, Alicia showed just how much milk her family gets through in a week - an incredible four GALLON bottles.

And as well as regular semi-skimmed milk, they also get through a gallon of chocolate milk, and a further three cartons of the drink.

They also chug through 48 bottles of water, as well as Alicia's flavoured sparkling water.

On the food front, the family are a big fan of condiments, and get through three large bottles of ketchup every seven days.

Their weekly shop also includes three bottles of ranch dressing.

As well as the regular shopping, Alicia also had to get stuff for "World Monday, chocolate fountain fondue Saturday" and her son Alex's birthday's next week.

She also picked up a few cooking items for herself - including a wok and a new mixing bowl set.

And on the toiletry front, she picked up some shampoo as someone in her daughter's class has lice, as well as toiletries for Alex's biological mother, who is going to be staying with them for his birthday.

In the fresh food aisles she got a load of meat, fruit, vegetables, dairy and deli food - using a staggering three carts in total for the shop.

The total bill for the shop came to an incredible $1,090.46 - which translates to around £803.

Comments on the video included those remarking on the amount of ketchup they get through in a week, with one person writing: "That's a lot of ketchup!!"

"There is no way you run through 3 bottles of ketchup in a week," another added.

Speaking of big families, the Radfords are planning to build their own home for their family of 22.

This woman is being removed from her parents' will as she's not having kids, but is plotting her revenge.

And this mum has given five of her kids the same name because it "bonds" them.