YOUR Sky TV remote has all sorts of tricks and shortcuts that you probably didn't know about.

From a way to quickly find your doofer when it's gone walkabout to a method for quickly typing into the search bar, here are some of the best Sky TV hacks.

Faster way to type to search

Finding something to watch on your Sky Q box just got a whole lot easier.

Your Sky remote features a useful trick for anyone who prefers to type search instead of using their voice.

Of course, voice search is best – when it understands what you've said – but it's not for everyone.

For those that prefer things the traditional way, it can be a bit of a slog typing an entire title out.

But there is a quick workaround – and it's a bit like texting on an old Nokia phone.

You will notice that each number represents several letters on the remote, something we've all seen on phones in the past.

Well, it turns out these can be used to rapidly type on Sky Q as well.

So you can tap the number 2 once for A, twice for B and three times for C, etc.

Always losing your Sky remote? There’s a handy trick to find it in seconds.

It means you’ll never lose it again... unless you’ve somehow left it miles from your home.

But if you’ve dropped it down the back of the sofa or accidentally put it in the kitchen bin, you’ll be able to uncover it.

The remote has a built-in speaker that can beep if you’ve lost it.

All you need to do is activate the feature using your Sky box. The remote control will beep loudly for 30 seconds, allowing you to quickly locate it.

To try it for yourself, press the Q button on the front of your Sky Q box.

After a few seconds, your paired Sky Q Touch / Sky Q remote with Voice Control will beep.

Another great time-saver you need to know about provides an easy way to quickly navigate back to the previous channel.

So if you were just watching another channel, you can very easily go back to it.

It works using two different methods, depending on the remote that you have.

On most Sky remotes, all you have to do is press the right blue key.

If you have the touch control, swipe right, then press the middle button.

In other news, a four-tonne chunk of a SpaceX rocket is on a collision course with the Moon, according to online space junk trackers.

Boeing has sunk $450million into a flying taxi startup that hopes to whisk passengers across cities by the end of the decade.

Personalised smart guns, which can be fired only by verified users, may finally become available to U.S. consumers this year.

And, scientists are embarking on a mission to unravel the mystery behind dozens of grisly child mummies buried in an underground tomb in Sicily.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk