BATTERED and broken, 15-year-old Danielle Marin* stood on a freezing fire escape in her underwear as four men debated whether to kill her.

In the hours before, the terrified teenager had been held hostage in a London flat and repeatedly gang-raped by the foursome, who punched and beat her, tried to set her alight and then urinated on her.

The horrific ordeal sent grammar school girl Danielle on a downward spiral.

Pregnant at 17, she was groomed by a gang, had her son taken away after a shooting at her flat and became a county lines drug dealer.

Now, after fleeing her old life, Danielle has revealed her shocking story in the new book, Top Girl, released on March 3.

In an exclusive interview, she tells The Sun that she wants to challenge the “stereotype” of gang members and says her descent into a life of crime could have happened to anyone.

“I wanted to make the book as honest as possible, but not villainize the people I ran with,” she says.

“I want to make it known that there’s not a clear cut path to get involved in crime and to break the stereotype of people involved in drug dealing and county lines.

“I never joined a gang or initiated myself into any gang. It was literally my community and people that I saw every single day, who I counted as family."

Last year, the Local Government Association warned of an "increasing trend to recruit females" to county lines gangs, who travel out of big cities to sell drugs in rural towns.

While official figures show that around 9 per cent of gang members are female, there's a concern a much higher number are slipping through the net, with many suffering sexual violence as a means of control.

“The stereotype means girls like me go unnoticed," says Danielle. "I was a well-dressed, white girl but I was in a gang and flew under the radar, because I look the way I look. We are the hidden victims.”

Raped and beaten by 'friends' in filthy flat

Danielle had a solid family background with her mum, stepdad and little brother, and was a bright student - securing a coveted place in a prestigious grammar school.

But her West London estate, in a poverty-stricken area, meant she grew up around drugs and violence.

At 12, she was groomed by a 19-year-old dealer who took her virginity and, a year later she was “experiencing horrors no 13-year-old should ever see".

In one incident, a teenager had two of his fingers cut off with garden secateurs and, in another, a girl who had messed with the wrong man was ambushed by 12 boys and girls who beat and punched her, then set fire to her hair.

Danielle was also jumped by a group of ten who beat her unconscious, prompting her to buy a knife to protect herself.

But the blade proved no protection when she was lured to a flat on the promise of a house party, and brutally gang-raped.

“These boys – two of whom I thought were my friends – took turns raping me, videoing the whole thing,” she writes. “It made me feel physically sick.

“I could barely breathe but, weirdly, there was no pain – not that I remember. It was like I was out of my body. Or one of those sex dolls – no feelings, no fight in me at all. I was just made of rubber.”

Her attackers forced her to make a video, saying she had consented to sex, and pull a gang sign.

The four men then carried on raping her “for hours” before pouring brandy on her back and lighting it, punching her repeatedly in the face, stomach and ribs and then dragging her on to the floor and urinating on her.

Then they made her wait on the balcony, in the freezing cold, listening as they discussed whether to “get rid of her”.

Finally, they called a taxi and dumped her - in a flimsy top and knickers - on the street, with no phone or money.

Picked up by the police, Danielle was interviewed and examined but she was horrified when the case was dropped - after a video of her having sex with her dealer ex was uncovered.

Despite the fact that it was statutory rape as she was just 13, she says the police liaison officer told her she “going to end up either dead in a ditch, or a prostitute".

Danielle is not alone - a damning report published this week found “extensive failures” in the way child sexual exploitation by criminal gangs is tackled, with police and authorities downplaying the scale of abuse.

The Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse found child victims of rape and abuse – including one forced at gunpoint to perform sexual acts on a group of 23 men – were often blamed for their ordeals and even got criminal records offences closely linked to their sexual exploitation.

“The rape was a turning point for me,” Danielle tells The Sun. “I may have gone down the wrong path anyway but that accelerated it and made me completely numb.

“At that point, I didn't care whether I lived or died. I didn't care if I went to prison. I didn't care about anything. I just lost all sense of myself.

“Nobody listened to me or saw me as the victim. If I had police support or a counsellor at that time, they could have shown me another route out.

Paid £800-a-time for flat to be used as 'crack kitchen'

At the time, Danielle’s anger and despair at being branded a “teenage sex worker” rather than a victim meant she began to lash out, throwing cutlery and crockery at her mum during fights and almost bottling a lad who inadvertently touched her at a fairground.

She also began stealing and staying out for nights on end.

At 17, she became pregnant with the child of her then-boyfriend and moved in with him and and his parents. They split months after her son, Lloyd*, was born and she moved into a council flat.

It was then she fell in love with Dajuan*, a local gang leader, who would use her flat to divide crack cocaine and heroin into bags before going OT - Out There or Out of Town - to sell.

His pals used her kitchen to cook up crack cocaine - paying her up to £800 a time - while she fed her son in the bedroom.

While she accepts the gang exploited her situation as a penniless single mum with her own flat, Danielle says she didn’t feel like she was groomed.

“They asked very nicely… and I said yes,” she says.

But Danielle would live to regret co-operating when an armed ambush by a rival gang led to a shoot-out at her flat.

Dajuan and his friends escaped unhurt but Danielle was arrested and Lloyd was ripped away from her care.

Since then she has only seen her son - aged 10 when she wrote the book - in a brief encounter outside his home.

“The gang rape wasn’t the the most horrific thing that happened to me - losing my son was,” she says.

“It brings me to tears now, whenever I speak about him.

“That has definitely affected me mentally way more than any violence I've seen or been subjected to.

“I didn't see it at the time, but there were clear life choices that I shouldn't have taken and there are consequences to that. It should never have happened and that’s my biggest regret.

“But I will never stop trying to see him. He's my son and I'll love him forever.”

£15k under the bed and £700 bottles of vodka

After losing Lloyd, Danielle began travelling with the gang to their county lines deals, selling crack and heroin to small towns and cities away from London.

They would spend weekends dealing out £10 fixes to addicts - known as “nitties” - sleeping in crack dens and dirty flats as their punters shot up in the corner.

Raking in the cash, Danielle was banking thousands every week - as well as keeping £15k in cash under her bed - and thought nothing of splashing £400 on hair extensions, £200 on high end make-up and booking VIP tables in clubs to drink £700 bottles of vodka.

“I made the decision to run drugs because I wanted the money but, looking back now, I was a vulnerable young person,” she says.

“Although I didn't feel like I was groomed, when I read the book back in chronological order, there was a huge element of grooming.

“But at the time I was money motivated, and the high life of dealers you see on social media is no lie.

“You will have designer bags and shoes and a lot of money stuffed in shoe boxes. You’ll drive nice cars and do lavish things.

“But there’s no longevity in it, and if you go to prison, all the designer handbags in the world are not going to help you.”

During her time as a dealer, violence became commonplace in her life.

“There were shootings in the street, and a lot of stabbings,” she says.

“There was something we called block justice, which would be one of our own getting pulled up in front of the crowd and whipped with a belt or beaten. These were just normal occurrences.”

Danielle finally escaped after a probation officer - assigned to her when she was arrested for dealing and handed a community sentence - encouraged her to seek a fresh start.

Over weeks, she slowly moved her bags out of the flat, for fear of being seen to be leaving, and stashed them in the probation office until she could make her final break.

Now studying for a masters in social work, and working with young female offenders, she is happy in her new life - but says she will never be “at rest”.

“If I see a police car, I automatically think what am I doing wrong?” she says.

“I'm constantly worried about getting arrested, even though I'm doing nothing wrong. It's paranoia.

“Most of the people I used to know are in prison, but I don't think I'm ever going to stop looking over my shoulder.”

In recent years, there’s been a rise in women getting dragged into county lines dealing, and Danielle believes many could be stopped if they were shown other ways of escaping poverty.

“There’s no simple answer but I would say people don't know the options they have,” she says.

“If you live in a poverty-stricken area, your options are limited and what you see around you is your world.

“All I could see was drug dealers in my early life, and I thought that was a legitimate way to make money, so the focus needs to be on showing kids another way.

“But also, let's not forget that some people committing crime are very traumatised, so we shouldn't criminalise them. We should be more trauma informed.”

With it’s brutal scenes of violence and sexual assault, Danielle’s seeringly honest book is a horrifying insight into gang violence and county lines culture.

But she has a message for anyone whose life is following a similar path.

“I wanted to show there is hope, that you can leave and you can change your path,” she says.

“Above all, love yourself. Don't try and get love from anyone else - it’s only you that matters. Just have some love for yourself.”

*Names have been changed to protect identities

Top Girl by Danielle Marin, published by Mardle Books at £8.99, is available from March 3