JESSIKA Power has revealed she's been approached to take part in the new series of Love Island - but is worried she's too old.

The Married At First Sight Australia star is currently starring in Celebs Go Dating but if that doesn't work out it looks like she'll have another chance to find love this summer.

Speaking exclusively to The Sun, Jessika said: "I've been asked if I would do Love Island and I just thought I was too old for it. I'm 31 in October. Can you do Love Island at that age?

"I don't know. We'll just have to see what opportunities come up. I really love being in the UK, I love the shows, I love the concept of how they run as well."

Jessika also opened up about her friendship with Towie star Pete Wicks, after they were rumoured to be growing close last year.

"Pete and I have got a great chemistry," she said. "He is someone that I could pick up the phone to if I was upset or something, he could talk to me.

"He's introduced me to people so I can have friends down here. Pete and I, we don't have anything though. I have a lot of respect for Pete. I think he's a great guy."

Revealing she was surprised about the advice Pete gave her for Celebs Go Dating, Jessika said: "He just said to me 'Do you deserve to be loved? Are you at a point of your life where you deserve to be loved? Are you whole in how you want to feel, and that somebody can be with you and be happy as well?'

"And I immediately said yes. And he's like 'Don't say yes straight away. Think about it'. And I was like 'Okay'. And you just don't expect that from Pete Wicks. Do you know what I mean?"

There's another Essex boy who's caught Jessika's eye, though she insists she wouldn't date him.

She confessed: "Do you know who I love? I wouldn't want to go on a date or anything, but I think he's the funniest thing in the whole world... Joey Essex.

"He's charming. He's funny. I was watching his show the other day called Five Star Hotel. It was on Netflix and all the UK stars were on it.

"And he was on it and I was like 'Who is this guy?' because I never knew who he was. I just thought he was the funniest thing in the whole world."