EGG chairs have become a must-have accessory for many homeowners and now you can even get one for your furry friend.

Several brands are now offering versions of the 1960s-inspired furniture for cats and dogs to enjoy alongside their humans.

Egg chairs have been a sell-out success in recent years.

The stylish swing chairs have been deemed a luxury lounger or garden accessory and are popular with influencers such as Mrs Hinch.

The chair is usually made of steel or rattan and features a solid frame to help hold the seat and support you as you sit and swing.

Many of the popular places to buy these chairs on the cheap, such as Aldi, Argos and B&M, will often quickly sellout.

Now they are also being geared towards pets.

You can buy lower hanging egg chairs that will fit a cat or dog bed so they can nap in 1960s style.

Prices range from £55 to more than £100 so you will need to be feeling pretty generous towards your pet and be sure that they won't chew it to pieces.

Sizes also vary so make sure your cat or dog will actually fit inside and if the chair will take its weight.

It is important to shop around and compare products using websites such as PriceSpy and Google Shopping.

We have found some of the best pet egg chairs to get tails wagging.

This grey hanging egg chair comes with its own cushion and will take a maximum weight of 8kg, which is more suitable for a cat or smaller dogs such as a Jack Russell.

The basket chair is 42cm wide and 42cm high with a diameter of 30cm.

It costs £55 but you will have to pickup from your local store as B&M doesn't deliver.

You can check stock availability and your nearest store on the B&M website.

This rattan-effect egg chair is advertised by OnBuy as best for small cats.

It is 74cm high and has a diameter of 45cm.

The chair comes with its own cushion and costs £60.99 with free delivery.

Shoppers can find a range of pet egg chairs on Amazon.

Prices vary but we found this wicker egg chair that costs £70 with delivery of £4.08.

There is no indication of the size or weight capacity so you may need to ask the seller before ordering to check if it is suitable for your pet.

Home Bargains is selling a pet swing with a poly cushion and a design that it says will limit the usual smells you may get from your dog.

It can take a maximum weight of 25kg, the equivalent of a Border Collie, and measures 84cm high and 65cm wide with a diameter of 55cm.

The chair can only be ordered online and delivery will be worked out at the checkout once you have entered your address.

You will need to really love your pet for this one.

It is 94cm high and has a diameter of 58cm.

The chair is made of steel and can take a maximum weight of 50kg, which is the typical weight of a female Great Dane.

It comes after B&M brought its egg chair for humans back this week.

Garden furniture has seen a spike in demand, especially for rattan furniture sets like one that Tesco is selling cheaper than other retailers.

Hot tubs were also the must-have item for last summer – with the brand Lay-Z-Spa enforcing a queue on its website after soaring demand.