ARSENAL have agreed a deal to sign US goalkeeper Matt Turner from New England Revolution.

The USA international, 27, is reportedly set to seal his move shortly once paperwork is filed and is likely to stay in the MLS until the summer.

Making plans to join him in London will be his stunning Wag, Ashley Herron.

The gorgeous brunette is a former NFL cheerleader who showed off her dancing skills at Super Bowl LII.

Smart Herron also gained her Masters degree in business management from Harvard University.

Ahead of the 2017-18 season, Ashley was selected to represent the New England Patriots as a cheerleader.

The pom pom queen even got the opportunity to cheerlead at Super Bowl LII, as Tom Brady's Patriots were defeated by the Philadelphia Eagles in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

There, she rubbed shoulders with half-time show performer Justin Timberlake as she strutted her her stuff.

Also during that year, Ashley travelled with the team to Aruba for their swimsuit calendar photo shoot.

While her fame led to TV appearances alongside US figure skater Nancy Kerrigan.

Although Ashley has put her good looks to use as a cheerleader, she's also worked incredibly hard behind-the-scenes with her education.

She scored a degree in Biology Pre-Med and Writing, and once pursued a career in medical writing.

In 2018, Herron earned a Masters degree in business from Harvard University - and focussed her studies on 'Organisational Behaviour in relation to disruptive marketing.'

The training in marketing has helped the beauty in launching her own business.

Herron is the founder of non-profile Miss Pink, a charity that supports female empowerment and helps breast cancer survivors and their families during treatment.

They provide meals, transportation to and from treatment, childcare, cleaning services and more.

Her work was praised by the House of Representatives, and has led to bigger and better things.

The busy Wag also started a consulting firm that helps devise disruptive strategies for small to mid size businesses.

But despite her hectic schedule, Ashley always makes time to praise her goalkeeping beau.

Paying tribute to Turner's success on the pitch, she wrote on Instagram: "People get to see your big moments, but I get to see the little ones too.

"All the little ones that make those big moments so remarkable and well deserved.

"What you manage behind the scenes; the countless hours of practice, the time you make for your family and friends, your ability to handle my antics, your desires and plans to expand your knowledge and build upon your skillsets or skills in the making.

"Your mind never ceases to amaze me on its continuous pursuit of growth and wisdom. For all those little moments, you’ve been the best human of the year to me.

"But for all those big moments (and the little ones too ;)) you became GK of the Year. Biggest congrats baby I am so proud of you, for this moment and all the moments to come @headdturnerr."