ASTRONOMY fans can see how the world looked when they were born thanks to technology provided by Nasa.

The Space Agency have uploaded spectacular space pics every day for more than 25 years via the use of it's Hubble telescope.

What is Nasa's picture of the day?

The Astronomy Picture of the Day (APOD) is a website provided by Nasa and Michigan Technological University.

The initiative has been running since 1995 with all the images stored in the APOD Archive.

According to the website, each day a different image or photograph of our universe is featured, along with a brief explanation written by a professional astronomer.

Previous spectacular images shared by the organisation have shown space flares on the surface of the Sun as well as pink rays in the sky.

The crystal clear images have been praised for their quality and even earnt awards.

By 2012, Nasa estimated the site had received over a billion image views and had been translated into 21 different languages.

What picture did NASA take on my birthday?

In 2021, Nasa launched a new tool that enabled users to find out what exactly the Hubble Space Telescope captured on your birthday.

All you need to do is enter the month and date in the search box provided on their website.

The Hubble Space Telescope will then show you what image they captured on that specific day.

Users can also check out the images captured by the Hubble Space Telescope on its own social media handles across Twitter and Instagram.

Where is the Hubble Space Telescope?

The American space agency launched the Hubble Space Telescope on April 24, 1990, and it was released into space the following day.

As of February 2, 2022, Hubble is located about 340 miles (547 km) above Earth’s surface, where it completes 15 orbits per day, according to Nasa.

The space agency adds that the satellite moves at the speed of about five miles (8 km) per second - which is fast enough to travel across the United States in about 10 minutes.

Since being put into operation the telescope has captured stunning images of the universe, which have furthered astrologists understanding of the cosmos.

Nasa say it can see objects in space like seeing a “pair of fireflies in Tokyo that are less than 10 feet apart from Washington.”