IF you don't think that leggings are a comfortable must-have for working out and chilling out, then you don't own the best leggings out there.

The best leggings feel like you're not wearing anything at all, never losing their elasticity and staying securely in place whether you're doing the downward-facing dog, a HIIT workout or settling down on a lazy Sunday.

In 2022, working from home is fast becoming the norm, so leggings are coming in handy for long days in front of the computer – with many of us admitting to wearing our funkiest, cosiest pair while on Zoom calls with our bosses. Paired with a smart-looking top, of course.

Loungewear is undeniably having a moment, with leggings at the forefront thanks to their flexible stretch, versatility and flattering, streamlined silhouette.

It's the piece of clothing that joins gym bunnies, TV marathon-lovers, and everyone else who prefers something comfy and practical to walk their dog in: they're such an easy go-to.

We've searched far and wide for the best leggings around (goodbye see-through knicker-revealing mishaps), including maternity styles, ultra-sporty gems, and sculpting magicians! Time to find your perfect pair.
• Amazon’s viral Seasum leggings review: Do they really have butt-sculpting super powers?

Looking for something to easily work out and work-from-home in? Lululemon's activewear is luxuriously soft, sculpting and flexible enough to easily wear day-in-day-out.

Cut from the brand's signature Nulu fabric, they're lightweight, moisture-wicking and fitted with a hidden slip pocket for storing your keys, if you're off out for a run.

The leggings come in an array of muted, by stylish colours, including Grey Sage, Dark Olive, Cassis, and Red Merlot.

They're on the pricier side, but a trusty fan favourite because they're so comfortable that you'll want to wear them for working out, working from home and just about everything inbetween. You're welcome.

If you're looking for quality leggings that are eco-friendly to boot, BAM has an amazing range of plain and printed styles that are ideal for yoga, sports and everyday wear — plus, BAM has just announced plans to reduce all of its impacts (climate, waste, water, chemical, human and land use) by 2030. Nice one.

Made from bamboo, this striking, funky pair is non-see-through, supportive and irresistibly comfortable.

Plus, bamboo works really well as a performance fabric due to its sweat-wicking absorbency, without the stickiness, and is a brilliant choice when shopping for more sustainable, eco-conscious sportsgear. Win-win!

Kim Kardashian's shapewear and loungewear label Skims is well-known for its seriously sculpting pieces, and the Ribbed High-Rise leggings are no exception.

Slipping on with an elasticated waistband, the all-over ribbed texture is enhanced by the super soft stretch-cotton fabric, crafted with premium comfort in mind.

Complement the high-rise waist by pairing them with a knitted cropped jumper, or oversized tee, for a 10/10 loungewear look.

We love Snag here at Sun Selects, after having reviewed both its range of tights and chub rub shorts - and we're pleased to see that the brand has now ventured into size inclusive leggings that fit, going up to a size 36/38.

Snag's sizes are arranged by letter, rather than number, and are true to size - but it's best to check out its size guide before you commit to buy.

These 7/8 leggings come in black or purple, are fully opaque, and totally 'squat-proof' - meaning they won't fall down while you're walking the dog, running, cycling, hiking or exercising as they fit your body properly.

They're super soft and come with pockets big enough to fit your phone in, are high-waisted and ankle-length for extra comfort.

Plus, Snag is a living wage employer and all of its products are made from recycled materials, including these leggings which are made from recycled polyamide, elastane and certified eco-responsible viscose.

You can read our full review of Snag's tights here.

When the frost is biting, or you fancy hitting up a camping or hiking excursion, you might need a bit of extra help to keep cosy.

You’d never know these leggings from M&S (available in black and navy) were thermal as they look just like any other average pair, but they’ve been intertwined with HeatGen technology.

So not only are they as soft and stretchy as the retailer’s regular offerings, they will help keep you toasty when it gets chilly.

Pregnancy is hard enough to handle without uncomfortable clothing making day-to-day movements even more difficult.

Black leggings will likely become your go-to once you’re expecting, and because Seraphine is a specialised brand for all things maternity, it should be your first point of call when looking for leggings that’ll fit.

This pair fits like a second skin, shaping and smoothing your legs to provide all-day support.

With dresses or sweaters (because seriously, who cares about wearing leggings as trousers when you’re 30 weeks pregnant?) they’ll keep you comfortable during a tiring nine months.

Wolford is the hosiery brand of choice for celebs such as Kim Kardashian and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley.

The label is known for its figure-sculpting designs, so you can be rest-assured that these leggings will fit like a glove; with no saggy bottoms or baggy ankles in sight.

How, you ask? They’re a hybrid between leggings and tights: not made of jersey, but a nylon stretch-knit fabric that will lift your buttocks and slim your thighs.

Sitting high on the waist to really suck you in, they’re crafted without seams at the crotch to ensure optimum comfort and prevent that dreaded camel toe we’re all too familiar with.

If you’ve been blessed with height or long pins, you may also feel like you’ve been cursed when it comes to shopping for clothes; particularly with leggings, which can look ridiculous at the wrong length.

Long Tall Sally's range offers great length and amazing, flattering cuts that never scrimp on style or comfort, either!

These high-waisted leggings come with a longer length leg and soft body-con blend.

Plus, LTS aren't just inclusive for the taller babes amongst us - but they also go up to a size 32.

For the perfect wet-look, without paying the huge price tag for real leather - or missing out on style, and comfort - Zara's pair are a go-to wardrobe piece.

These faux leather leggings also have an imitation button and zip combo, to mimic jeans or smart trousers - so you'll be extra comfy, all the while discreetly wearing leggings.

You'll look the part with long boots and a chunky jumper by choosing from black, or the chocolate colour options.

Normally, leather leggings could cost you anything from a few hundred, up to over £1,000 (ouch) so these are a bargain - and suitable for the animal-lovers and anti-animal cruelty shoppers among us.
• Ponte Leggings, £16 from Next - buy here

There really is nothing worse than seeing someone in leggings that are see-through.

The martyr in you wants to tell them they seriously need to chuck them in the bin, while your kinder side knows that saying you can see their undies will cause major embarrassment.

It’s a tough call, so make sure you’re not on the receiving end of such information by choosing blackout leggings.

This pair from Next are made of a heavier jersey to avoid such faux pas'.

And because they’re thicker, they pull you in for the ultimate flattering fit, too - and come in a range of colours, sizes and heights, from Petite to XL and Tall.

Made from at least 75 per cent of recycled polyester fibres, these Nike Swoosh leggings are super flattering, high-waisted and a more sustainable option.

Available up to a size XXL (UK 24-26) these figure-hugging high rise leggings are ideal for working out, and lounging about.

With a thick, supportive elastic waistband, they won't roll down when walking or running, and the stretchy Dri-FIT fabric is made to keep you feeling cool while wicking away sweat.

There's nothing worse than worrying that your leggings won't be leakproof when you're mid-flow and working out while on your period.

Or, bending into the downward dog position, worrying about how your bulky pad looks from behind...

With WUKA's Perform period-proof leggings, you can squat, shimmy, run and ride to your heart's content and forget about your pad not being enough when it comes to your next work-out.

WUKA's leggings, made from recycled polyester, have integrated seamless period pants inside and can hold up to three tampon's worth (around 15ml) of blood - replacing period products altogether when it comes to keeping active.

The sustainable, lightweight fabric is super absorbent and has a moisture barrier, to wick away sweat and your period flow, as well as a comfy addition to your active lifestyle - plus, they're size inclusive too, going up to a 6XL.

Which is the best material for leggings?

If you want leggings to lounge around in, soft cotton leggings will be your go-to.

Cotton is a breathable material that will keep you feeling fresh, and is generally very comfortable to wear all-day-long.

However, it's worth mentioning that cotton doesn't hold up so well to stretching and although it's strong, over-wearing it can result in a loss of shape. Choosing a cotton blend with Lycra or Spandex is therefore a good option for adding stretch to your leggings.

If you want something longer-lasting, a pair of polyester leggings are a good idea as they're water-resistant and sweat-wicking, making them a very popular choice for activewear.

What are the most comfortable leggings?

If you want to cool and comfortable for warmer months, bamboo has become an incredibly popular sustainable fabric choice for leggings, as it's highly moisture-absorbent, eco-friendly and has a similar look and feel to cotton.

For the cooler months, wool or thermal leggings could be your best option: while a little pricier, it's perfect for keeping pockets of air trapped and holding in warmth.

Enjoyed our round-up of the best leggings for women? If you want to read more of our fashion recommendations, take a look at Sun Selects fashion section.

But if you're looking for the perfect dress, check out our guide to the best dresses on the market.

We've designed Sun Selects so you can find the best items at the best prices when shopping around the web.

This article and any featured products have been independently chosen by The Sun journalists. All recommendations within the article are informed by expert editorial opinion. If you click a link and buy a product we may earn revenue: this helps to support The Sun, and in no way affects our recommendations.