ARSENAL flop Nicolas Pepe is the worst value-for-money attacker in the Premier League, according to new research.

The Gunners broke their transfer record to sign the 26-year-old from Lille for an eye-popping £72 million in 2019.

But Pepe has flitted in and out of the starting XI during his time at the Emirates, scoring 15 goals in 69 appearances.

And those stats make him top of the pile when it comes to worst-value forwards in the top-flight.

Chelsea forward Timo Werner comes in second on the list, scoring just seven goals in 46 games since his £47.7m move from RB Leipzig in June 2020.

Newcastle's Joelinton swings into third spot with just seven goals in 89 games following his £39.6m move from Hoffenheim.

He appears a player reborn however under new boss Eddie Howe, now playing as a central midfielder.

Manchester City star Riyad Mahrez and Wolves youngster Fabio Silva complete the top five.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

The study was compiled by BingoSites, who studied the goals scored by forwards who have played a minimum of 38 games in the Premier League to determine which player has proven the worst value for money.

Each player was ranked from zero to 10 based on how many goals they have scored per game, and on the size of their fee.

These scores were then combined to discover which forward is the biggest ‘flop’ in the Premier League.

One surprise name in the top ten is Raheem Sterling, in at No8.

The Manchester City attacker has scored 85 goals in 214 matches for the Prem champions since he joined in 2015.

While this is a respectable goal to games ratio, his transfer fee of £57.3m is the fourth highest on the list, which means Sterling struggles to compare with players who cost considerably less.

Discussing the findings, a spokesperson for BingoSites said: “This research shows us which players haven’t proved to be the best investments for their club.

"In particular Nicolas Pepe, who is Arsenal’s most expensive ever signing, and Timo Werner who was his previous club, RB Leipzig’s record goal-scorer.

"The data also throws up some surprising results, such as Mahrez and Sterling.

"But when analysing players purely based on value for money, those with big transfer fees will always struggle to compete against bargain buys.”

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals