CALLING all McDonald's fans, the long-awaited Chicken Big Mac is finally here.

Luckily for foodies, we've even found a way for you to try it out for free.

If you click on a link in this story we may earn affiliate revenue.

It's finally launched today, and if you're looking to get your teeth around the limited edition sandwich here's how.
• Get a Chicken Big Mac for free with TopCashback - click here

One of McDonald's most requested products is finally here, the Chicken Big Mac.

Available now until March 15, it's the Big Mac we all know and love but with a Chicken Twist.

That's two 100% chicken breast patties in a crispy coating, a slice of cheese, lettuce, pickles and the deliciously world-famous inimitable Big Mac sauce.

This fabulous cashback offer will save you £5 on your Just Eat order, enough to cover the cost of your Chicken Big Mac; priced £4.09 on it's own.

It's £5.59 as part of a meal, which includes chips and a drink.

If you've only got eyes for the Chicken Big Mac, and we don't blame you, we've got a way to get your hands on it for free.

The offer is only available to new Topcashback members, but if you're not already it's free to join - the reward is a sizeable slice of saving.

To take advantage, simply sign-up to the cashback site, and then make your order via Topcashback.

How to earn £5 bonus cashback from Just Eat

To get the offer you just need to:
• Follow this link to TopCashback's website and sign up for free
• Follow a link from TopCashback to Just Eat
• Make your order and enjoy your food
• Wait for the £5 to roll into your TopCashback account

Within two weeks you’ll see the £5 appear in your TopCashback account – and you can then withdraw to your bank account.

To see the full terms and conditions of the offer, visit the TopCashback website.

Also launching today is the Double Big Mac - if you're hungry enough, everyone's favourite Mozzerella Dippers, and the delicious Galaxy Chocolate McFlurry and Galaxy Salted Caramel McFlurry.

Wonder what we thought? We got an exclusive look; we mean taste, of the new burger - and here's what we thought.

Get £5 off Just Eat when you spend £5 or more via TopCashback.

Sign up to TopCashback for free as a new member, then find the Just Eat £5 deal.

You'll then get the money within 30 days. It's valid until September 30 - or until 10,000 people have taken up the deal. Find the full T&Cs here.

The chicken Big Mac will only be available after 10:30am when the breakfast menu finishes for the day - we explain McDonald's breakfast serving times in more detail.

Maccies recently axed two popular menu items - find out if it was one of your favourites.

Also, an ex-McDonald's worker explains how you can get a food freebie.