RICH tech giants should be forced to PAY victims of heartless scammers running wild on their sites, the Government has been told.

Flimsy laws at present "make it easy" for fraudsters to rip people off using dodgy adverts on platforms such as Facebook, Google and Twitter, MPs said.

The Treasury Committee warned that con tricks and economic crime have surged at an "alarming rate".

They think tech firms will take the problem seriously if they had to reimburse anyone duped into parting with their cash.

It comes as people lost record amounts during the pandemic, as vicious tricksters jumped on fears around testing, lockdown, jabs and even postal deliveries.

Overall fraud crime rose by 36% last year, with more than 420,000 offences recorded, according to Action Fraud.

Angela McLaren, Assistant Commissioner for Economic and Cybercrime at the City of London Police said between 2019 and 2020 alone social media featured in more than 39,000 crime reports, resulting in losses of £120 million.

"If we look at the types of fraud that are most emergent at the moment, the vast majority of them will rely on some form of social media platform," she told MPs.

"The consistent theme through all these frauds is, obviously, the use of social networking and social media sites."

Facebook and others were also slammed for profiting from adverts by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) designed to make people aware of scams.

While tech firms offered the regulator some free advertising credits, Google still pocketed more than £690,000 from the FCA, while Facebook-owner Meta earned over £364,000 and Twitter took home £161,000.

"We would prefer that these ads were not published in the first place, to be really frank," said Mark Steward, the FCA's director of enforcement.

"The irony of us having to pay social media to publish warnings about advertising that they are receiving money from is not lost on us."

Google has since offered £2.2millon in free credits, on top of another £1.5million to support industry awareness.

Others have been urged to "follow Google's example" and pay the regulator back.

The wide-ranging report also recommended that there should be proper regulation for cryptocurrencies to ward off fraud and money laundering.

A rep for Facebook-owner Meta said: "Promoting financial scams is against our policies and we're dedicating significant resources to tackling this industry-wide issue on and off our platforms."

In other news, Apple has revealed a bunch of new emoji for iPhone, including a pregnant man and two saucy symbols.

Experts have warned that future space launches could be jeopardised if "stupid" regimes like Russia don't stop blasting the skies creating debris.

And the most popular phone since the millennium has been unveiled, with many shocked to find out it's not an iPhone.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk