KATE Moss's little sister Lottie Moss has checked into rehab.

The model, 24, took to TikTok to tell fans she was undergoing treatment.

She went on to explain that she is not in usual celebrity rehab facility The Priory.

Appearing to film herself in her bedroom, Lottie uploaded a clip which read:

"When everyone's glamorising drooog taking but you're literally in r3h4b. [sic]."

It's thought that Lottie made the spelling errors in her post to avoid it being pulled down by TikTok's admins.

Referencing HBO's new series Euphoria - which focuses on a group of party loving 20-somethings who use both alcohol and drugs - Lottie added: "I think I took euphoria too literally u guys."

In a second post, Lottie can be seen miming to a voice over about wanting a cigarette alongside the caption: "The staff at r3h4b when I go outside for the 10000th time to $mok3.[sic]"

Her confession came after it was revealed Lottie had stripped nude on OnlyFans.

Lottie said last year she had been struggling with substance abuse and anxiety.

She said: “I have never been happier mentally, I’ve struggled a lot in the last few years with myself and anxiety and other things.

“Right now is the first time I have ever put myself first and actually worked on myself to make sure I get the best out of my life and am actually feeling like the best and truest version of myself! And I love her!”

“My struggles have caused me to act out of character and ultimately I think I was becoming a person that I didn’t really like which is why I numbed myself with substances and put myself down through neglect of my mental health and my general health.

“Going down that road made it very hard for me to get out, I was surrounding myself with people who were a similar mental state to me and I can see now that was not helping.

Lottie also previously opened up with her fans about struggling to reign in her partying.

As Britain went into lockdown in 2020, Lottie moved into Kate’s country pile in Little Faringdon, Oxfordshire, which she shares with daughter Lila, 18, and boyfriend Count Nikolai von Bismarck, 35.

The source added: “Kate came to the rescue and said Lottie could isolate with her during lockdown.

“Happily she’s successfully re-applied for a replacement passport and hopes to return to Los Angeles later in the year.”

In April, Lottie posted on Instagram: “My struggles have caused me to act out of character and ultimately I think I was becoming a person that I didn’t really like which is why I numbed myself with substances and put myself down through neglect of my mental health and my general health.

“Going down that road made it very hard for me to get out.

"I was surrounding myself with people who were in a similar mental state to me and I can see now that was not helping.”