A HOLIDAY abroad comes with all kinds of travel rules and restrictions which can make a relaxing trip abroad much more stressful.

While Covid testing is to be expected, some countries have much stricter rules - here are some of the restrictions you may not be aware of that will affect your holiday.

Maldives - Covid tests for kids over one

A family holiday to the Maldives still comes with strict testing rules, including for babies.

The Foreign Office website says: "All visitors (except children under the age of one) must present a negative PCR test for COVID-19 on arrival to Maldives.

"The test and negative PCR certificate must be issued no more than 96 hours prior to departure."

The strict testing rules for babies is the same for the US and Greenland as well.

New York - Kids over 5 must be fully vaccinated

New York has strict rules for young travellers, with everyone over five having to be fully vaccinated.

The New York City government website confirms: "Starting January 29, 2022, children ages 5 to 11 must also show proof of full vaccination."

Greece has strict rules when it comes to face masks, with everyone having to wear them in all indoor and public spaces.

If you don't have an N95/FFP2 mask then you have to wear two in some parts of the country.

The Foreign Office website states: “It is mandatory to wear a mask in all indoor and outdoor public spaces, in all areas of Greece.

"In certain areas, such as in supermarkets and pharmacies, and on public transport, you will be required to wear either double masks (at least one of which should be surgical), or an N95/FFP2 mask.”

If you are considering a holiday to Egypt, you should try flying from London Heathrow - as you have more time to take your test.

All arrivals must have a Covid test taken 72 hours before travelling, but this extends to 96 hours from the London Airport.

The Foreign Office website says: "The Egyptian authorities have advised that PCR tests must be conducted no more than 72 hours prior to flight departure.

"Passengers arriving from London Heathrow only are permitted to have their PCR test conducted no more than 96 hours prior to flight departure.”

Spain introduced new travel rules yesterday which will only accept full vaccination - proof of recovery and Covid tests are no longer accepted.

The Foreign Office website says: "If you’re travelling to Spain for tourism purposes, you cannot use the UK proof of COVID-19 recovery record certifying that you have recovered from COVID-19 in the last 6 months."

All arrivals must have had their second jab less than nine months ago as well, or have had their booster jab.