HEATING bills are skyrocketing for households across the country, so many are scrambling to find ways to lower the costs.

And you might not realise that where exactly you position your thermostat in the home could be having a major impact.

Essentially, you shouldn't have the thermostat in the coldest room in the house as it will trick you into paying more to heat up the other rooms that might not need it.

Experts have revealed that placement is especially important when it comes to your thermostat.

That's particularly important as millions of households are about to find out whether they face a £600 rise on their bills as well.

The energy price cap increase is being announced tomorrow and is expected to rise by 50% from April 1.

Experts also predict energy bills could rise again in October to over £2,000 a year.

This coupled with the cost of living crisis means the most vulnerable have had to make the harsh decision between heating and eating in the worst cases.

But there are plenty of steps you can take to try to lower your bills, and you should start with your thermostat.

This tiny dial, which controls the temperature in your home, has a major influence over how big your bills are.

If you position it in the wrong room of your house it could be adding hundreds to your bills.

Experts say placing it in the bathroom, a room that has such an inconsistent temperature, could throw off its readings.

That's because the temperature it's sensing will jump from hot to cold as showers are run and baths are drawn.

The same goes for placing the thermostat by a window.

Just as a window can can cause waste energy to trickle out your home as cool air comes in, the cold of a window ledge could affect your thermostat too.

But at the other end of the scale, direct sunlight on your thermostat could trick it into thinking that the house is too hot.

Where should I place the thermostat?

If the thermostat is placed in a colder area, especially if it doesn't reflect what's going on temperature-wise in the rest of your home, it'll mean your home is being heated unnecessarily.

You should aim for the thermostat reading to be as accurate as possible, so it can work efficiently and you're not wasting energy.

You should have it in your most used room, according to the CIBSE domestic heating design guide.

This should also be somewhere you'll want to feel the heat most, like the living room or main bedroom.

Many people like to keep the bit of kit in their hallway too which could be a central location in the house, but remember to keep drafty doors closed if that's the case.

However, if you have a wired thermostat, it could be a costly and awkward job to move it.

Investing in a wireless thermostat that you'll be able to position as you please could be a worthwhile investment as it will give you more control over your heating.

How else can I help lower my bills?

It's not just where you position the thermostat that's important, but exactly how you use it.

Most households will regularly set their thermostat above 22°C but that's higher than needed and meaning you're paying more than you need too.

Uswitch explained that households could make potential savings of up to £127.70, by turning down the temperature of the thermostat just one degree.

Also upgrading the kit you've got to a smart thermostat could save you as much as £164 a year - it'll connect your heating system to the internet so you can turn down temperatures on your phone while you're out and about.

But this comes with an upfront cost that you'll have to factor in, ranging between £150-£250.

Make sure your home is insulated too is important.

Plus, while you're looking for a new home for your thermostat, it's worth evaluating all the waste energy room by room in your house.

You might be able to switch something off here, or plug a draughty gap there, and the pennies will soon add up.