CHELSEA are the leading candidates to sign West Ham superstar Declan Rice.

That's according to bookmakers Sky Bet, who've installed Thomas Tuchel's side at 4/1 to clinch his signature in the summer transfer window.

However, there's plenty of competition for the England international.

Reports claim Manchester City and Manchester United are also targeting the talented 23-year-old this summer.

And Sky Bet think Liverpool and Newcastle are also possible destinations.

The Telegraph claim Rice's admirers were 'encouraged' by West Ham's lack of transfer activity in January.

By failing to strengthen the squad, David Moyes' side may have squandered the opportunity to qualify for Champions League football next season.

Rice has made it abundantly clear that his ambition is to win trophies and compete in Europe's top competition.

The player has already rejected two contract offers, and failure to secure a top-four finish or silverware could hasten his departure.

West Ham previously valued Rice, who has at upwards of £100million.

His contract still has two-and-a-half years remaining on it and the London club have the option of extending it for a further year.

But they are unable to offer him enormous wages akin to the £380,000-a-week that Jack Grealish is earning at Manchester City.

If West Ham DO decide to sell this summer - Chelsea are at the front of the queue at odds of 4/1.

Manchester City and Manchester United are locked together at 6s, with Liverpool a fraction behind at 7/1.

Newcastle (12/1) are the outsiders of the group, and will have the financial muscle to compete should they avoid relegation this season.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose

For help with a gambling problem, call the National Gambling Helpline on 0808 8020 133 or go to www.gamstop.co.uk to be excluded from all UK-regulated gambling websites.

*New customers only. First single and E/W bet only. Odds of 1/1 or greater. 2 x £10 bet tokens. Free bet stakes not included in returns. Free bets exclude virtuals. Free bets are non withdrawable. No free bet expiry. Eligibility restrictions and further T&Cs apply. 18+. Begambleaware.org