ANTHONY JOSHUA went into his clash with Oleksandr Usyk with the wrong 'attitude', according to Frank Warren.

The Watford warrior had the WBA, WBO and IBF heavyweight titles ripped from his clutches in his Tottenham tussle with the slick southpaw last September.

AJ, 32, opted to try and outbox the smooth operator instead of using his brute force - a tactic that stunned Queensberry Promotions chief Warren.

The veteran promoter told Boxing Social: "I do fancy Usyk in the rematch, I did feel that Joshua's corner got it wrong in the last fight.

"I don't think they got it right at all.

"I feel Usyk's got his number, I feel Usyk's got an exceptional trainer in old man Lomachenko, he's a bloody good trainer and I think they'll be really up for this in more ways than one.

"I'll be interested to see if AJ does change his trainer but irrespective of that, he's got a lot of things to work on, not just his trainer.

"His attitude in that fight, I don't think was good. I don't think he was doing what a big guy should have been doing."

Joshua will bid to exact revenge on the undefeated Ukrainian in the spring, with SunSport understanding the pair's rematch is currently being targeted for May.

And former unified heavyweight champ is hellbent on doing a number on his fellow London 2012 gold medallist.

He told iFL TV last year: “For me, I have one thing in my mind, that’s war, that’s murder, that’s war, let’s go out there and hurt the guy.

"Take his soul to the point where he wants to give up. That’s what boxing’s about, I’ve learned that.

"You hit people constantly, keep on applying a certain amount of pressure, before they know it they’ll realise you aren’t going anywhere, you’re here to stay.

“With the game plan, that’s all I have in my mind at the minute, that one track, stay on course, take this guy to places he doesn’t want to go.”

The Golden Boy of British boxing has removed Rob McCracken from his role as head coach for the high-stakes rematch but has yet to reveal the identity of his lead trainer.

Promoter Eddie Hearn recently told DAZN: "AJ will do that himself in due course when camp starts, there's been training in the US, there's been training in the UK.

"He's, he's got a good idea in his mind now what his team will look like for that training camp.

"I think he's buoyant. He's excited. He feels like he's done the research. He's done the work.

"In the next three or four weeks, it'll be time to enter camp and I'm sure we'll make an announcement about who's on the team.

"It's a camp which is going to be very important for his career and one he's very excited about."

JOIN SUN VEGAS: GET A FREE £10 BONUS WITH 100s OF GAMES TO PLAY AND NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED (Ts&Cs apply)