YOU may be typing wrong – but there's an easy way to get faster.

Anyone can train themselves to type much faster, and you could potentially double your speeds.

It all depends on whether you're a "hunt and peck" typist – or a "touch" typist.

In the typing world, these concepts have existed for decades.

But plenty of people still struggle to master fast typing.

TikTok star Jon Douglas has created a video explaining these typing concepts – and an easy trick to improve.

His video on touch typing has racked up nearly 24,000 likes.

"One thing you don't want to be doing is using two fingers," Jon explained.

"This is known as 'hunt and peck'.

"It's really slow and it's really inaccurate.

"It's so slow that even when you do know what you're typing, you can probably get up to 40 words-per-minute (wpm)."

If you're prodding the keys with just two fingers, you've got a bad typing habit.

Thankfully, there's a brilliant way to improve typing speeds.

"Rather you want to learn what touch typing is," Jon said.

"This is when you actually have all your fingers on the home row of your keys."

The home row of keys is the middle alphabet layer, running between "a" and "l".

On a standard English language keyboard, it will feature a, s, d, f, g, h, j, k and l.

And you'll want to place your index fingers – the ones you use for pointing – on "f" and "j".

On most keyboards, you'll be able to feel some kind of ridge or bump on those two keys.

That's to let you know you're in the right place without looking.

"So while you can get up to 70wpm as a hunt-and-peck typist, you can easily get 100wpm as a touch typist," Jon explained.

The website recommends 30 minutes of daily practice to master the habit.

It lets you test your touch typing, adding a single letter of the alphabet at a time.

The game tracks your typing speed and accuracy, as well as how much time you've spent practicing.

You're also given a score, so you can easily see if you're improving.
• Get the latest on Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram

In other news, Google Chrome users have been urged to delete their browser.

Check out the best iPhone 13 deals.

And take a look at your hidden Facebook rejection folder.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk