EXPERIENCED Dream Team bosses will know we like to make a song and dance when a player passes 100 points for the season.

By their very nature, centurions tend be the central protagonists of the campaign and as the men who ultimately determine where mini-leagues are won and lost, we celebrate their success.

With that in mind, you maybe be asking: which team contains the most 100 Club™ members at this stage of current season?

22 players from seven different clubs have reached three figures after 21 Game Weeks.

James Maddison (£3.9m) is the Foxes’ lone representative having racked up 110 points.

Notably, the 25-year-old has risen up the rankings sharply after a desperately slow start to the campaign.

He has just 12 points to his name at the end of Game Week 11!

Since then, he’s blazed 98 points in 12 games.

Jarrod Bowen (£4.4m) is flying the flag solo for the Hammers having enjoyed a Maddison-esque burst of form between Game Weeks 16 and 20, a spell that produced 61 points.

Hotly tipped to make Gareth Southgate’s next England squad, the former Hull winger has 127 points to show for his efforts in 2021/22 so far – only Riyad Mahrez (£6.9m) has more among midfielders.

Bowen has scored nine goals and provided eight assists in all competitions.

No prizes for guessing which two Old Trafford residents are standing head and shoulders above their team-mates.

Cristiano Ronaldo (£7.9m) and Bruno Fernandes (£5.2m) have combined for 243 points, nearly 30% of the Red Devils’ total points tally.

The Portuguese pair will be licking their lips looking at their upcoming fixtures…

Be honest, did you immediately think of Harry Kane (£7.1m) and Son Heung-min (£5.2m)?

If so, you’ve fallen into our devious trap.

The South Korean superstar has 99 points and it’s actually Lucas Moura (£3.5m) who joins the England skipper in the 100 Club™, mostly because he’s quietly claimed five Star Man awards this term – only Kane and a certain Liverpool forward have more.

It’s incredible really that Kane has 145 points having mustered just one goal in his first 13 league games.

It might come as a surprise to learn that the runaway league leaders boast just four centurions: Kevin De Bruyne (£6.4m), Bernardo Silva (£3.7m), Joao Cancelo (£6.3m) and the aforementioned Mahrez.

However, it’s worth noting that three of Pep Guardiola’s troops are in the nervous 90s: Ruben Dias (£4.2m), Raheem Sterling (£4.8m) and Gabriel Jesus (£4.2m).

Cancelo is the star of the show as one of only three players to have passed 150 points but many Dream Team gaffers may single out Bernardo as the asset deserving of most praise as he started at a very affordable £3.0m and hoovered up points at a time when many high-profile midfielders had stalled.

Firstly, commiserations to Andy Robertson (£4.5m) who narrowly misses out by a single point.

Centre-backs Joel Matip (£3.8m) and Virgil van Dijk (£6.2m) have both ‘tonned up’ to borrow a phrase from the cricketing world.

They’re joined by Diogo Jota (£5.4m), who has 14 goals in all competitions, and the two best assets of the season, Trent Alexander-Arnold (£6.5m) and Mohamed Salah (£8.2m).

The Reds’ homegrown right-back has one eye on Thierry Henry and Kevin De Bruyne’s jointly-held record for most assists in a single Premier League campaign (20) – he’s on 168 points at this stage.

As for the Egyptian King, what else is there to say, he’s on a whopping 233 points despite nipping off to help his country reach the semi-finals of the Africa Cup of Nations.

Don’t let a mid-season slump distract you from the fact that Stamford Bridge was home to several outstanding Dream Team assets for the first four months of the season.

Five of the Blues’ seven centurions are defenders which says everything you need to know about their discipline at the back for the most part: Reece James (£5.9m), Thiago Silva (£4.9m), Antonio Rudiger (£4.7m), Cesar Azpilicueta (£5.4m) and Marcos Alonso (£4.2m).

The former only lost ground on Cancelo and Alexander-Arnold because of his injury – James averages 6.2 points-per-game in 2021/22.

Jorginho (£3.5m) has reached three figures almost exclusively through penalties while Mason Mount (£4.2m) has reestablished himself as a reliable Dream Team midfielder after a sluggish start.

The England international has scored seven goals and provided seven assists for Chelsea this term and is therefore on course to easily reach double figures in both metrics.