EVERTON have sacked Jean-Luc Vasseur from his role as manager of their WSL side.

The firing of the France-born coach, 53, comes just over three months after the club dropped the axe on Willie Kirk’s three-year reign as the Toffees’ boss.

And the Frenchman’s assistant Frederic Piquionne and performance manager Franck Plaine have also left the Walton Hall Park side.

Vasseur, who managed Lyon previously, was in charge of Everton for just 95 days overseeing ten matches across all competitions.

During that time the club have experienced a tough run of results in the league picking up just one win from their last six WSL games.

And Telegraph Sport reports Toffees chiefs were displeased with the team’s recent form.

It is also thought their players were unimpressed with Vasseur’s training methods.

In a statement published on their web site, the club said: "Everton can confirm that Jean-Luc Vasseur has left his role as manager of the Club’s Women’s team.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

"Assistant coaches Frédéric Piquionne and Franck Plaine have also left the Club.

"Everyone at Everton would like to thank Jean-Luc, Frédéric and Franck for their service and wish them well for the future.

"Chris Roberts and Claire Ditchburn will take charge of the team on an interim basis.”

Vasseur took up the manager’s role at Everton last October after a two-year spell at the helm of Lyon from 2019 to 2021.

The coach led the French giants to five major trophy wins including their seventh Women’s Champions League crown before he was sacked in April last year.

Vasseur’s last game in charge of Everton, who face Aston Villa next, was their 4-0 FA Cup fourth-round win against Huddersfield Town.

The club, who finished fifth last term, harbour ambitions of playing in Europe and reaching the Champions League.

At present they are currently third from bottom in the WSL and just seven points ahead of bottom-placed Birmingham.

However, the Toffees currently have two games in hand on Birmingham and Leicester City who are 11th in the table.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals