A star-studded field is set to battle it out in the 2022 Premier League at the Motorpoint Arena in Cardiff.

SunSport are on hand with our tips for the opening night as Gerwyn Price is joined by the likes of Reigning world champion Peter Wright and Michael van Gerwen.

The action begins on Thursday in the first of 16 nights of action on each Thursday across seven different countries.

After several years of familiarity mixed with the brief thrill of ‘contenders’, the PDC have decided to drastically shake up the Premier League format, and the tournament is all the better for it.

The event will consist of an eight-person knockout bracket every night, with first to six legs the format.

Players will receive two points per semi-final finish, three points per runner-up finish, and five points per final win.

It ensures that every night will have something to play for, with a cash prize on offer to every night winner.

GERWYN PRICE is the top of the market with the Welshman’s consistency over the last 12 months being rated over the last couple of tournaments, which have seen early exits in the Worlds to Michael Smith and the Masters to Jonny Clayton.

You’d expect an overall Semi-Final appearance at worst, but the World #1 has never reached that stage in three previous attempts. He may be a different player to those times and will have a point to prove after missing out last year due to COVID, but favourite backers beware…

PETER WRIGHT is just behind and at this stage of his glittering career, the reigning World Champion only has this tournament and the World Grand Prix missing from his gigantic mantelpiece of titles. Absent from the final here since 2017 when he collapsed spectacularly against Michael van Gerwen, he looks hard to oppose given his current form.

Those days of chronic inability to make it over the line are long gone and the last time he won the Worlds, he made the Semi-Finals in this tournament. Back him to go a couple steps better this year.

JONNY CLAYTON won this trophy last year and still looks in fine form despite his disappointing loss in the last four of the Masters. With no scars in this event (played one, won one) he will feel comfortable with the weekly rigours of TV matches.

It’s very difficult to oppose him as he is still averaging in the high 90s almost every time the cameras are on him but I think his A-game is still a smidge below the likes of Price and Wright.

MICHAEL SMITH saw another opportunity at silverware slip through his fingers and his closest brush with glory yet will either galvanise him or disenfranchise him. All the noises coming out of his camp suggest the latter but the proof will be in the next few months.

I worry that if he loses his first few matches then the effect might snowball and he misses the playoffs altogether. At the current price, there are more interesting alternatives.

JOE CULLEN is by far the most interesting selection and it is great to see him in the event. With a TV title finally under his belt, will his Masters victory prove to be the breakthrough win that so many predict?

This tournament has been the undoing of so many up and coming stars over the years (Mark Webster and Glen Durrant last year spring to mind) but I think that Cullen has enough experience and crucially a robust enough game to avoid a similar pitfall. But I don’t think that week in, week out, he will get the best of the top end of the market. I hope I’m wrong though!

At the bottom end of the market, GARY ANDERSON sits at a huge price which could just be a mockery. If he turns up most weeks and plays at his best, he will be smashed in. But if he drifts by idly, he won’t make the final four.

Lastly, JAMES WADE continues to frustrate his critics (and probably sponsors) by simply being one of the best Darts players in the world. The UK Open winner made the last four of the Worlds and continues to sit at #4 in the rankings.

It’s clichéd at this point but if anyone has an off night he will be there to pick up points. It probably won’t see him all the way to a title, but don’t be surprised if he’s there on the last night at Newcastle and many people are scratching their heads…

Paddy Power: Bet £20 and get it back as Cash if it Loses – CLAIM HERE

New customers only. Place your FIRST bet on any sportsbook market and if it loses we will refund your stake in CASH. Max refund for this offer is £20. Only deposits made using Cards or Apple Pay will qualify for this promotion. T&Cs apply. Paddy's Rewards Club: Get a £10 free bet when you place 5x bets of £10+. T&Cs apply. 18+ Begambleaware.org

Betfair: Get a £20 free bet when you place £50 worth of bets. Repeat up to 5 times – CLAIM HERE

New customers place £50 worth of bets to receive £20 in free bets. Repeat up to 5 times to receive maximum £100. Min odds 1.2 (1/5). Multiple bets included. Exchange bets excluded. Payment restrictions apply. T&Cs apply. 18+ begambleaware.org

William Hill: Bet £10 and get £40 in free bets (Mobile Only) HERE

18+. Play Safe. When you sign-up via Mobile using promo code N40 and place a bet of £10/€10 or more we will give you 4x £10/€10 free bets credited after settlement of first qualifying bet, free bets will expire 30 days after the qualifying bet is placed, payment method/player/country restrictions apply. begambleaware.org

New customers only. Min deposit £10
• A qualifying bet is a ‘real money’ stake of at least £10
• Min odds 1/2 (1.5)
• Free Bets credited upon qualifying bet settlement and expires after 7 days
• Free Bet stakes not included in returns
• Casino Bonus must be claimed within 7 days
• To withdraw bonus/related wins, wager bonus amount x40 within 14 days
• Casino bonus expires after 60 days
• Withdrawal restrictions & full T&Cs apply 18+ begambleaware.org

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose