A PREGNANT woman has slammed her mum for ruining her gender reveal party and playing with her emotions after tricking her into thinking she was having a baby girl.

Ashlee, from the US, who already has a son, shared a video to TikTok where she could be seen holding a pink balloon which read "girl" and a blue one which said "boy".

In the next clip, she asks "team boy or team girl?" as she prepares to pop a balloon with a pin to reveal all.

And Ashlee was clearly elated when pink confetti filtered across the room to indicate that she was expecting her first baby girl.

Jumping up and down and falling to her knees as she let out an excited squeal, the expectant mother explained: "Clearly you can see I wanted a girl so bad and in that moment I felt like I hit the lottery."

FABULOUS BINGO: GET A £5 FREE BONUS WITH NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED

However, not all was as it seemed.

After her face was seen dropping in the video, she explained: "Then here comes my son making me realise it's really another boy. I was p*****."

And many took to the comments section to agree that Ashlee's reaction was justified - and that it's not fair to mess with someone's feelings in that way.

"That’s unfair they knew she wanted a girl… why play like that?" wrote one, while a second agreed: "Now see this reaction is valid because you can’t play with a pregnant woman’s emotions like that."

Another person commented: "This is the only one I can actually be okay with the parent being mad. Cause why play like that."

Ashlee reponded: "Right, I wasn't mad it was a boy I was mad they had me think it was a girl."

And when another admitted they too would've been "mad," Ashlee penned: "Right, I think she did it on purpose honestly."

Pregnant Ashlee also replied to another who branded her mother's actions "really disrespectful" and said: "It was very much not ok and ruined my moment."

In other baby news, this woman revealed how her cousin stole her baby names TWICE.

Also, this expert has revealed when you can start leaving your kids home alone.

Plus, this woman, who wants to be a cool mum, has revealed her parenting rules - 'my kids have to tell me if they’re skipping school & pre-drinks will always be at mine'.