STOKE flop Jese Rodriguez has sealed his on-off love affair with the girlfriend he took to court four years ago for harassment by asking for her hand in marriage.

The 28-year-old former Real Madrid and PSG star went down on one knee inside a red heart drawn on the floor during a romantic holiday with model and influencer Aurah Ruiz in Dubai.

The shock proposal came just four months after the footballer, now a forward with second division Spanish side Las Palmas, found himself at the centre of bizarre allegations 32-year-old Ruiz rubbished claiming she had tried to run her man over following a row.

Rodriguez revealed to his two million Instagram followers pretty brunette Ruiz’s answer to his marriage request was 'Yes.'

In a long message alongside the snaps he posted, showing him proposing on a bed of red roses as a violinist played in the background before embracing his bride-to-be inside the heart-shaped circle, the striker wrote: “Yeeeesssss I doooooooo.

"Those words have been the answer to the question I’ve most thought about in my life and your answer my baby. It’s the beginning of everything.

“I really wanted to shout to the world that the love of my life wants to be beside me, for ever, and we won’t be just ‘her or I’ but will very soon be ‘Us.’”

Calling Ruiz the 'compass that guides me and the owner of my destiny', Rodriguez added in an obvious reference to the problems they have suffered during their headline-making romance: “I could write many more things but I would prefer it if we experience them together and in the future we can write a book where we recount how true love is capable of beating everything and everyone.

“Love always wins. I love you, I adore you my treasure. Forever together.”

Ruiz responded on her own Instagram: “I really don’t have words to express what I really feel.

“And you know very well what it is and that’s the only thing that matters. I love you.”

Confirming also she had accepted the footballer’s marriage proposal, she signed off by writing: “Yes I do.”

Rodriguez's ugly break-up with Ruiz, who became a household name on a Spanish TV dating show, made headlines while he was at Stoke on a disappointing loan spell between August 2017 and May 2018.

He scored just one goal in 13 games in a period marked by his regular returns back to Spain after the son he has with Ruiz was diagnosed with a serious illness.

Ruiz accused him of failing her in the battle to help Ryan, now four, regain full health when he was in hospital in Gran Canaria and he ended up reporting her for harassment.

His shock legal action ended with the headline-loving brunette being convicted in December 2020 despite the pair reuniting months earlier.

Ruiz was told at the time of her conviction she would have to do nine days community service after reaching a settlement with Rodriguez.

The pair left court holding hands before saying goodbye with a kiss and a hug.

After their decision to rekindle their relationship Rodriguez became father for the fifth time with a model he dated while he was at war with Ruiz.

The footballer, whose fall from the heady heights of life as a LaLiga star with Real has been blamed on injury and his partying off the pitch, already had two children with a woman he was with before he met and started going out with his future wife.

In October, Ruiz was forced to deny claims she had run Rodriguez over following a row.

The brunette spoke out to defend herself after video footage went viral showing a man identified locally as the striker limping away from the scene of the supposed traffic incident with support from several other people around him.

An unidentified person could be overheard on the video saying: “That's Jese. He won't be playing. He’s going to be out injured now”

A local paper on the holiday island of Gran Canaria, where Rodriguez is currently playing for Spanish second division side UD Las Palmas, identified the street as being near a stadium where the footballer and his girlfriend had just attended a concert.

Former Spanish Big Brother housemate Ruiz admitted she had rowed with her partner.

But she raged: “I’ve not run anyone over. It’s a lie and very serious.

“I’m not going to allow people to say I’ve run my partner over.

“I know a lot of things have happened between us that we’re not proud of but we love each other and I never wanted to run him over.

“I know I lose my head sometimes but this!!! How am I going to do something to the father of my child!! Are we all mad!!

One social media user, referring to the soap opera ups-and-downs of the turbulent relationship between Ruiz and Rodriguez, titled the video: “These two could give you enough material to make a successful Netflix series.”

The striker, who had loan spells with his current club, Stoke, Real Betis and Sporting Club de Portugal after signing for PSG in August 2016 for five years from Real Madrid, also hit out at claims he had been hurt by his girlfriend.

He said on social media: “Respect me and stop publishing fake news.”

Ruiz revealed last year she was a fan of sex toys, claiming: “Jese loves them. I have loads and I play with my partner with all the toys I can collect together.”

The brunette also hinted a sex tape she had made with the footballer would come out soon.”

Rodriguez only went public with his romantic proposal this week although it was made during their festive break in Dubai.