TWO new species of killer hammerhead flatworms are heading to our gardens, scientists have warned.

But what are they and how do you get rid of them? Here's all you need to know...

Hammerhead flatworms are a predator that could soon be in your garden.

They prey on earthworms, slugs and snails, and because earthworms are vital to our ecosystem, flatworms are considered an invasive species.

To digest earthworms, they secrete a neurotoxin that can irritate skin or sicken pets for a few days if eaten.

More than ten species of flatworm are known to have spread around the world from Asia, thanks to the plant trade.

One of the new varieties was found in France and Italy, the other on an island near Africa.

Some of the world’s biggest types grow up to 3ft long.

Experts from Paris’s National History Museum warned of the new varieties after looking at the latest data during lockdown.

Some have already been found in Europe and experts believe it is only a matter of time before they cross the Channel in imported pot plants.

Their arrival could threaten the natural biodiversity of ­British gardens and could even harm crop yields in the countryside, according to scientists.

How to get rid of hammerhead flatworms

What not to do

The number one rule when getting rid of Hammerhead flatworms is not to cut them in half.

It's thought that the species reproduces using fragmentation.

This means if a part of the worm breaks off it will form its own head within 10 days.

They should never be handled unless absolutely necessary.

If you must, you should use gloves, and hands should be washed with hot, soapy water afterward.

Using citrus oil is the easiest way to kill hammerhead worms.

Put the worms in a sealable bag or container and spray them with the oil.

It can be found in most gardening or grocery stores - but it is also easy to make at home.

To wipe out the whole population you must spray each one.

Like slugs, you can use salt to kill hammerhead flatworms.

Collect all the worms from your garden and sprinkle them with the salt - it should kill them immediately.