CELTIC host Rangers tonight under the lights in a huge Old Firm derby.

To celebrate the showdown, BoyleSports are offering new customers the chance to get £20 in free bets plus a £5 free bet in-play bet when they sign-up and bet a tenner.

You can claim the free £20 bet offer HERE*

Old Firm derbies don't get much bigger than this as the two are separated by just two points at the top of the Scottish Premiership.

Rangers will look to extend their lead over Celtic to five points after being boosted by the arrival of Aaron Ramsey.

Rangers stalled last time out after drawing 3-3 away to Ross County while Celtic will be seeking their sixth win in a row.

Celtic have home advantage tonight and could go top of the league with a win at Celtic Park.

Three simple steps - How it works:

2) Bet - Place a qualifying bet of £10 or more
• Place a £5 bet on any Bet Builder Celtic vs Rangers on mobile after creating an account.
• Get a free £5 bet to use in-play on the same match.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose

Terms and conditions: *New UK customers (Excluding NI) only. Mobile exclusive. Min stake £10. Min odds Evs. Free bet applied on 1st settlement of any qualifying bet. 30 days to qualify. Free bets expire in 7 days. Cashed out/Free Bets won’t apply. Payment method restrictions. 1 Free Bet offer per customer, household & IP Address only. 18+. T&C's Apply. **18+. UK/IRE mobile customers only. Min Odds of (2/1). Place a bet of £/€5 on any Bet Builder in the Celtic v Rangers match on 02/02/2022. Free Bet can be used on any in-play single for the same match. One qualifying bet per match (first bet placed). Free/void/cashed out bets won’t qualify. Free Bet will be credited after kick off and expires 7 days later. T&Cs apply