THIS Morning came under fire today for giving air time to a care home worker who refused to get the Covid vaccination.

Louise Akester, who had worked in the care sector for 14 years, lost her job last year after the government called for all care home workers in adult homes to be vaccinated in order to protect the elderly guests.

At the time she broke down in tears as she said goodbye to her job and today appeared on the This Morning sofa to chat to Vernon Kay and Rochelle Humes, following the government U-turn on the news.

Phillip Schofield is currently off work because he has Covid and despite the virus still spreading, Louise was invited in the studio.

Those watching at home were gobsmacked as she explained why she didn’t want the jab because she felt it was too new.

She insisted she did what she could to protect the people in the home and Rochelle and Vernon offered her lots of sympathy – leaving viewers furious.

They concluded the bizarre interview by clapping the women, as fans took to Twitter revealing they planned to complain to Ofcom.

One person wrote: “#ThisMorning need to stop giving a platform to the unvaccinated and anti vaxxers.. it’s dangerous to say it’s okay to not get the vaccine, do better.”

Another added: “@vernonkay giving a platform for misinformation and celebrating antivaxxers. She had a simple scientifically proved and safe way of keeping her job. Should not be celebrated like this. @Ofcom #ThisMorning.”

Some else tweeted: “What absolute disgrace having that person who has done "everything " No you haven't get the jab! The most susceptible people in society being looked after by unvacinated is madness and selfish! #ThisMorning.”

While a further remarked: “Fuming that she was given a platform to spout misinformation and didn’t get challenged #ThisMorning need to do better than this.”

And someone else ranted: “I am totally disgusted that @vernonkay @RochelleHumes on #ThisMorning have given such a public platform to an anti-vaxxer. They even clapped her Dizzy face Neither presenter challenged her in any way...no words.”

Just under a quarter of people in England have been infected with Covid- and 84 per cent of people over 12 have been jabbed.

The best way to protect yourself and your loved ones, and to ensure Britain can "learn to live" with Covid, is to get jabbed - or boosted.