IF you've ever noticed a sequence of numbers like 222 or 777 repeatedly throughout the day, it might be a sign from the angels.

In numerology, angel numbers have a strong significance - and 2/2/22 is a date charged with special energy.

What does 2/2/22 mean?

February 2022 marks the end of the 222 sequence for this century, which started back in 2000.

This month, there are three such dates – February 2, 2022, February 20, 2022, and February 22, 2022.

We won't see the 222 sequence again for another century, until 2/2/2222 - so you should make the most of it this February.

According to numerology, this is an extremely powerful sequence, charged with energy of duality, partnership, relationship and balance.

As 2 is the number of partnerships and relationships, love is the main theme for February 2022.

The key lesson for this month, and particularly on the dates that feature the 222 sequence, are to approach life with balance, compassion and cooperation, and to seek partnership with the others around you.

2/2/2022 also marks a new beginning for those who want to escape their past and grow further from negativity.

For each astrological sign, the stars have a different message in store on this date - so make sure to check your horoscope.

In numerology, different numbers carry different significance, and when a number repeats itself the energy is even stronger.

Repeating numbers usually mean the angels are trying to communicate with us, and knowing the meaning of each one holds the key to the message.

222 is one of the most powerful angel numbers and carries a variety of messages, depending on what path you are currently on in your life, according to Well+Good.

Using your intuition, you can explore these messages and decide which one resonates with you and your life the most.

1. You're headed in the right direction

Sometimes seeing an angel number, like 222, is simply confirmation that you are headed the right way.

2. There's something you have to do

Pay attention to where you are and what you're doing when you see 222 as this number could be trying to tell you there is something you must do.

3. You might need to slow down

The number 2 is connected to the idea of harmony, so if you see 222 you might be moving too fast and you need to slow down and pay attention.

4. Your life could be out of balance

Also connected to the idea of harmony, 222 might be asking you to check where you're placing your energy and attention.

5. It's a sign your angels are with you

When you see 222 or another angel number, know that you are not alone and your angels are watching over you.

6. You're exactly where you need to be

If you've been looking for a sign that you are where you're meant to be, then seeing 222 is reassurance from your angels that you don't need to worry.

What other significant dates for astrology are in 2022?

The Universal Year Number of 2022 is 6 (2+0+2+2=6), making this year all about balance, home, health, karma, and love.

"Six is very family focused, so we may see people reconnecting with family members they haven't seen since the pandemic," according to Ellen Ricks, numerologist for Astrology.com.

"Many people may be starting a family, or moving back in with their family."

This will be a unifying year, with love and family at the forefront, according to astrologists.

Apart from 2/2/2022, here are some other key dates to look out for:
• February 3 marks the end of the first Mercury retrograde for this year
• March 20: the Spring Equinox brings a sense of hope and new beginnings
• March 21: as Jupiter enters a conjunction with Mercury, the planet of travel, this is a good day to make some travelling plans
• April 1: New Moon in Aries and a day to start new ventures, relationships and projects
• May 10: Mercury is retrograde in Gemini and Taurus, making us afraid of change and new experiences
• May 16: a Lunar eclipse in Scorpio means it's a good day to do some introspection
• June 21: the Summer Solstice is a great day to look back and celebrate everything you've achieved so far this year
• June 28: Neptune enters retrograde and allows you to explore your intuition and psychic abilities
• August 27: during this New Moon in Virgo you should focus on organising your work and career
• September 9: Mercury is retrograde again, this time in Libra and Virgo, bringing clear and concise communication
• October 30: Mars goes retrograde until January 2023, making it difficult to find motivation and make decisions
• December 9: Venus in Sagittarius is square Jupiter in Pisces, a day for reflecting on past relationships and understanding what you need from your current ones
• December 29: last Mercury retrograde for this year, marks the need to reorganise our time and priorities