A FEMALE teacher accused of having sex with a student has had charges against her dropped after she married him.

Disgraced former Missouri teacher Baylee A. Turner, 26, looks set to avoid a four-year jail term after marrying the student she allegedly had sex with.

Prosecutors in Missouri have decided to drop charges against the ex Sarcoxie High School English teacher saying marital privileges meant they couldn't force the victim to testify.

Turner - a self-described "Jesus follower" - was charged with having sexual contact with a minor in February 2019 following an explosive investigation by Jasper County Sheriff's Department, according to the Joplin Globe.

She allegedly had intercourse with the student at her family home that she shared with her husband in Sarcoxie in January 2019, according to court documents, and resigned in disgrace shortly afterwards.

Turner - who faced a four-year prison term if found guilty - taught English at Sarcoxie middle school for two years before being promoted to teach high school students in 2019.

Assistant prosecutor Nate Dally told the Globe that because the former student now had spousal privileges, he could no longer be compelled to testify against Turner, severely weakening the state's case in court.

Dally said Turner had surrendered her state teaching license, which prosecutors said was their main goal.

It's not clear when the two got married or who the student is.

The self-described devout Catholic married in 2016 and was still with her husband during the sinister affair.

She even ran her own blog called "Fuelled by Faith" in which she wrote about her husband, her Catholic faith, and a book she had been writing.

In one of her posts, Turner said: "Let’s stop shaming women for sticking to the traditional ways in life.

"Let's stop assuming that all women want the same things, and start respecting the fact that independent women come in all shapes, sizes, beliefs, and lifestyles."

The case echoes the relationship between Washington state teacher Mary Kay Letourneau who was convicted of raping sixth-grade student Vili Fualaau in 1997.

Letourneau had sex with Fualaau in 1996 before marrying him and having children together.

The pair divorced in 2019 and Letourneau passed away from colon cancer in 2019 aged 58.

She was 34 at the time and a married mother to four kids when their relationship began.

Letourneau's husband, Steve, discovered the pair's relationship after he found love letters between his wife and the teenager.