BARCELONA have finally unveiled Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang as their newest signing.

The 32-year-old forward joins the Catalan giants after Arsenal cancelled his contract to enable him to sign on a free transfer.

And Barcelona have now posted their first official clip of Aubameyang on social media.

One graphic image showed Auba being parachuted onto the famous Sagrada Familia with his superhero masks in his backpack, with the caption 'You've got a call from Barcelona.'

They also showed images of his medical being taken, before Aubameyang gave a short interview.

He said: "I’m very proud, especially because my family is Spanish as well on my mother’s side.

"I’m just really proud and happy to be here. My main goal is to help the team and do everything I can to bring the team back to the Champions League."

Aubameyang has agreed a contract until June 2025 with a buyout clause of £84million placed in the deal.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

He added: "It’s amazing to have [Xavi] as a coach, he’s been an amazing player as everyone knows.

"I’m sure as a coach he will bring something that we will learn."

However, there is also an option for him to depart at the end of next season.

Aubameyang officially posted his goodbye message to Arsenal fans on Tuesday night.

In response to a farewell video from the club, he used just a simple love heart emoji as he departs for the Nou Camp.

The Gunners officially confirmed the star had left the club by mutual consent on Monday.

Arsenal said in a brief statement: "We wish Auba all the best for the next chapter in his career and thank him for his contribution to the club."

The North London outfit were forced to pay £7million to cancel Aubameyang's contract.

But they will save £29m in the long-term as they have taken the Gabon captain's £350,000 a week wages off their books

He leaves after making 162 appearances for the Gunners, scoring 92 goals, and helping the club win the FA Cup in 2020.

Aubameyang spent two-and-a-half years as captain, but was stripped of the role in December after arriving back in the UK late from a trip overseas.

That was seemingly the final straw for boss Mikel Arteta, with the Spaniard freezing Aubameyang out of his squad ever since.

An Arsenal exit was rumoured throughout the January window, and after surprising the Gunners by jetting into Barcelona by himself on deadline day, Aubameyang finally got his wish to leave the club.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals