NEW travel rules are being enforced from tomorrow which will make family holidays abroad much easier.

Earlier this month, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps confirmed that teenagers will be able to get Covid passes for holidays abroad.

Families complained they were forced to cancel their holidays because of restrictive Covid-19 passport rules for kids.

As it stands, children aged 12 to 16 who have two doses of the jab cannot use the NHS app - meaning they cannot get the Covid-19 pass for travel digitally.

Parents instead have to call up the NHS 119 helpline or go online to request an under-16 NHS Covid Pass letter for kids to enter countries including Spain, Italy and France without any quarantine or self-testing rules on landing.

But from tomorrow teenagers will be able to download their pass either through the NHS app or website.

It will make travelling to countries that require Covid certification easier for youngsters.

The government website states: "Children aged 12-15 in England will be able to prove their vaccination status or proof of prior infection via a digital NHS COVID Pass from 3 February for outbound travel, making it easier for children and families to travel to countries which require proof of vaccination or prior infection to gain entry, avoid isolation, or access venues or services.

"It will also enable families to plan holidays for February half term with greater confidence, as parents can be reassured they will quickly be able to evidence their child’s vaccination status or proof of prior infection for outbound travel and meet the requirements of different countries more easily."

More travel rules are being scrapped later this month too.

From February 11, all Covid tests for vaccinated holidaymakers will be scrapped.

Shapps said that arrivals will only need to fill in a Passenger Locator Form when entering the UK, as long as they have had both jabs.

He said: "From 4am on February 11, and in time for the half-term break, eligible, fully vaccinated passengers arriving in the UK will no longer have to take a post-arrival lateral flow test.

"That means after months of pre-departure testing, post-arrival testing, self-isolation and additional expense, all that fully vaccinaated people will have to do when they travel to the UK is to verify their status via Passenger Locator Form.

"We are therefore scrapping all travel tests for vaccinated people, not only making travel much easier, but also saving about £100 per family on visits abroad."

Unvaccinated Brits will have to take pre-departure tests and a post-arrival PCR test, but will no longer have to isolate or take another test on day eight.