A MODEL has blasted her crush after he cruelly told her she was "getting fat" - with thousands of her furious fans rushing to throw their support behind her.

Amanda Nicole Martin, 27, stunned her 8.1million Instagram followers after sharing screenshots of her date's shameless jibe which left her feeling "sad and insecure".

She hit out at the unnamed man on social media after he told her she was "starting to put on weight" - before having the audacity to offer help her "slim back up".

He wrote: "Want me to be honest? Not that your (sic) fat but you are starting to put on weight.

"I can help you slim back up".

Shocked by his senseless remarks, Amanda - from Las Vegas - replied: " I don't think I should respond to you right now".

Amanda took to Instagram to share screenshots of the texts with her social media users, who were stunned by his rude comments.

She captioned the post, which included snaps of her donning a purple lingerie set, with: "I sent these pics to my crush today and he told me I’m getting fat…"

The post has since gone viral with more than 126,000 likes - with hundreds rallying to Amanda's defence.

Another follower replied: "Girl u ain’t fat you look amazing you need a man who loves you for all your curves."

"You look hotter than ever," a third added.

"Insecure men always put gorgeous women down to make themselves feel superior. You’re gorgeous," another user responded.

Amanda says the man has since apologised for his insulting messages.

"I told him that for anyone to say something like that to me, that they probably weren’t my type," she said.

"My type is the supportive type that will gas me up just like I would build my king up always.

"I have spoken with him since and he has apologised. He said he didn’t mean it in a mean way.

"No man really wants to see someone again after they blast their screenshots blasting them to 8.1million people.

"As for the comments, my fans are super supportive and kind of savage and they definitely made my point for me."

Amanda also revealed she has recently struggled with medical problems, which has impacted her body.

She said: "P.S. before any trolls like to add into the mix, I have been struggling with medical issues going on like two months now on hella medications and have just been able to get back in the gym.

"I have never claimed to be a 'fitness' chick…I am a thiccc bih (sic) genetically. personally I love a lil extra squishy tummy and my thicc thighs."