NEW year, new you - right? But how about treating the whole new you (or the same old, upcycled you) to a much-needed mattress upgrade?

There's nothing worse than a lumpy old mattress, that leaves you waking up with aches and pains, and not feeling fully rested. So we've done the hard work for you and rounded up some of the best mattress deals we've found online this February 2022. Go on, hit snooze again...

In recent years, there's been umpteen award-winning mattress companies starting up online and sending out fancy memory foam creations to your front door at a click of a button.

The downside? Top quality mattresses all-too-often come with hefty price tags that'll put you off upgrading, and there's plenty of them - so shopping for the best mattress to suit your needs and budget can be pretty overwhelming stuff.

But if you know where (and when) to start your mattress shopping, there's no reason why you can't find a decent discount on the mattress of your dreams... see what we did there?

Below, we've rounded up the best offers we can spot on some top quality mattresses this month, including some exclusive offers for Sun readers. Sweet dreams!

*Prices and discounts are accurate at the time of writing. Offers are subject to change.
• Nectar mattress review: Is it the best value mattress on the market?
• Best memory foam mattress: Our pick of the best
• Save up to 36% on Simba mattresses over £300 - buy here

Simba is apparently the world's most five-star reviewed mattress brand (and we don't disagree - check out our honest, glowing reviews of the Hybrid Pro and Original Hybrid).

And, luckily for us, they're currently offering up to a whopping 36% off mattresses for new customers until midnight 7 February.

For a limited time only, the sleep-tech firm are offering 36% off orders over £300, including money off the Original Simba Hybrid, Simba Hybrid Pro and The Simba Hybrid Luxe.

There's also 40% off bundles which includes a mattress, two pillows, a duvet and a mattress protector.

Eco-conscious shoppers: rejoice! Each Simba mattress is made in the UK from 100% recyclable materials, with 60% recycled and sustainably-sourced packaging.

Plus, each mattress comes with a 200-night trial, a 10-year guarantee and a free delivery to the room of your choice. Say yes to sweet dreams, and no nightmares.
• New customers save up to 50% on Emma mattresses, use the code 'TheSUN' for an extra 4% off - buy here

Emma often has offers on its mattresses, and there's currently up to a massive 50% off for new customers right now in its New Customer Sale this February. It's for a limited time only, so be quick!

The great news is that Sun readers can save even more by using the code 'TheSUN' at the checkout for an extra 4% - it's that simple.

The sale sees offers on Emma's signature mattresses, including the Original and the Premium, as well as discounts on mattress bundles, bed frames, pillows, duvets, weighted blankets and more. You really can kit out your whole bedroom in style, and on a budget, this month.

Billing its product as the UK's "most awarded mattress", Emma makes a triple-layered core that's designed to be supportive, comfortable, and allows heat to escape so you don't get too hot in the night.

Like most online mattress brands, Emma offers shoppers the chance to return their chosen mattress within 200-nights if they're not happy with it.

We've also reviewed the Emma Original if you'd like to know our honest opinions before you buy.

Want to know more about weighted blankets, too? Check out our round-up of the best weighted blankets.
• Save over £235 on any mattress + free bedding, as well as 40% off Nectar's Whole Sleep Pillow - buy here

Nectar Sleep's mattresses are well regarded for being both comfortable and lightweight, and there's currently a whole load of deals to help you kit out your entire bedroom on the brand's website this February.

On mattresses, in the brand's Comfy Winter Sale there's savings of over £235, and with any mattress purchase you will receive five free gifts, including: a Nectar mattress protector (worth £90), a set of sheets (worth £150), duvet (£130) and a set of Premium pillows (£109).

Act fast, though, as the brand's Comfy Winter Sale ends at midnight on 15 February.

There's also 40% off the brand's coveted Whole Sleep Pillow with any purchase of a Nectar mattress, too - until midnight 6 February.

Nectar's mattresses in general are billed as suitable for use with all bed types, whether you've got a platform bed or a slatted base.

And, as an added bonus, you can return the Nectar mattress within 365 nights if you're not completely satisfied with it.

And, if you fancy, you can also head over to our Home section to read our honest Nectar mattress review.
• Save up to 35% on Eve Hybrid mattresses - buy here

Eve mattresses offer a great pressure-relieving, foam feel without the quick-sand sensation that plagues some foam mattresses.

Eve products are quite soft, however, and ideal if you're a side-sleeper.

They're also good if you're sleeping with someone, as they come with a pretty impressive motion isolation feature.

Right now, there's up to 35% off its original spring and foam mattresses for a limited time in the company's February sale - ending 16 February - and the brand's offering a 100-night trial in case you change your mind (we're sure you won't).

Plus, there's also 20% off a brand new bed frame, so you might as well kit out the rest of the bedroom while you're at it.

Read our Eve Sleep Mattress review if you'd like to know all about it before you buy.
• Free bedding bundle with any mattress purchase over £849 - buy here

Brook + Wilde make some seriously comfortable sleeping gear (check out our review of the Lux mattress).

And the good news is, with any mattress order over £849 you can enjoy a free bedding bundle - just be sure to add the code 'BUNDLE' at the check-out.

Orders of a Lux mattress receive an Everdene Bundle; Elite mattress buyers will receive a Cavendish Bundle; Ultima and Perla orders receive a Marlowe Bundle.

Act fast, as it's for a limited time only, and will end on Monday 7 February.

If you miss it, keep checking the website for more excellent offers that pop up throughout the year as we promise there's plenty of them.
• Shop Hybrid mattresses and bundles with up to 45% off in Otty's sale - buy here

Otty is running a series of discounts this February on its Hybrid mattresses that is treating shoppers with savings of up to 45% on certain mattresses, including its Pure Hybrid and Original Hybrid - but be fast, it's for a limited time only.

Plus, there's also up to 35% off its pillows and mattress toppers; half price off its duvets, and up to 45% off on its bundles.

And better yet, the company will also price match other mattress brands, if you find a better offer elsewhere, of course.

The Otty has won a series of awards, and offers a 100-night trial, 10 year guarantee, 0% finance if you wanted to spread the cost, and a courier service that'll even pick up your old mattress for a small fee, if needs be. Dreamy.
• Get up to 60% off bedframes and mattresses in the Dreams February Price Drop - shop here

Dreams sells a huge range of mattresses and bed frames, running deals on different ranges throughout the year - at the moment, you can up to 60% off a mattress and more in its Price Drop. Hurry, offers end on Tuesday 8 February, though.

As one of the UK's leading mattress brands, it offers free delivery on orders over £100, 0 per cent finance if you needed to spread the cost over a few months, and even boasts being the Official Sleep Partner for Team GB and Paralympics GB.
• Up to 60% off in the Happy Beds February Sale - shop here

Happy Beds is offering up to a whopping 60% off in its February sale, but once it's gone... it's really gone, so act fast.

Up for grabs is a wide array of bed frames and furniture, including single, double and king size beds and mattresses - as well as bunk beds, ottoman, and efficient storage beds.

Plus, you can save an extra 10% on each mattress, when bought with a bed frame - but that's until stocks last.

What is the best mattress for the money?

It's hard to say what the best mattress is for the money because of the number of sales and offers that can be found at various times of the year.

And there's nothing to say that a bargain mattress from Argos won't be the best option for you.

But of the internet brands, we reckon Otty offers up the best balance of quality and affordability, especially since it will price match the other brands.

But if you find these internet-only sellers a bit pricey, check out the Hamarvik sprung mattress from Ikea.

It's got rave reviews and you can get a standard double for £150.

How much should you spend on a mattress?

A good sprung mattress doesn't have to cost much more than £150 for a double.

Memory foam mattresses tend to be a little more expensive, but you can start to find good quality doubles from £300.

Hybrid mattresses, which contain a mix of foam and springs, are more expensive still and can cost anything from £400 to £1,000 and above for a double.

Other factors to consider when you buy include the amount of trial period you'll get (most internet-only brands offer 100 nights), as well as shipping costs, which can quickly send your overall cost soaring.

Some of the online-only brands offer free delivery, such as Emma.

What are the best mattresses to buy?

We've created a mattress buying guide which you can find here for some tips about buying the perfect mattress.

Everyone likes something different though, so it's worth checking out a combination of memory foam, springs, hybrids and different varieties of firmness.

Luckily, loads of mattress-makers offer 100-night return periods, which will let you work out what mattress is the right fit for you.

Enjoyed our round-up of the best mattress deals? Check out our selection of the best mattress toppers.

Getting a good night's sleep also requires the right pillow. We've rounded up the best supportive, pregnancy and travel pillows.

Want more homeware reviews and recommendations? Head on over to our dedicated Home section.