A MUM-OF-THREE kidnapped a man who was then tortured over 12 hours - falsely claiming he had abused her daughter.

Sarah Davies, 33, made the allegations as on-off boyfriend Mark Kennedy had boiling water poured over his head and cigarettes stubbed out on his arm.

He was also driven around in his own car with a plastic bag and towel over his head - during which time he thought he was "going to die".

Initially Davies had demanded Mr Kennedy help pay for her to have lip Botox after discovering he was due to receive an inheritance payout.

But she then wrongly accused of him of molesting her two-year-old daughter in a warped attempt to get ''compensation'' from him.

During his kidnap, Mr Kennedy was hit about the head with an iron bar and told he would have his throat cut and his body buried on moorland unless he ''confessed'' to abusing the little girl.

Davies and a male friend who assisted her also tried to get a ''video confession'' from Mr Kennedy while the victim was beaten and tortured with lit cigarettes.

The pair even demanded money from his mum.

Mr Kennedy was told to hand over £10,000 but went to police.

He was treated for a wound to the back of his head which was glued plus burns to his scalp and arm which has been left scarred by the cigarette stubs.

In a statement, the victim, who is in his 40s, told police: ''During my ordeal I was made to do things what were horrible and degrading when I hadn’t even done anything and they used what they were saying as an excuse to start hurting me.

''I was terrified and remembered shaking whenever they entered the room and I kept shouting at them to stop and let me go.

"I pretty much had to do everything they said simply to give me some hope of escape.

"When they put a towel over my head I didn’t know what they were going to do next. I thought they were going to kill me."

He added: ''When they poured boiling water over my head it was agony and I screamed.

"They threatened to kill and bury me on the moors whilst I was being driven around - all I could do was think of my family. After what happened I no longer feel safe and constantly looking over my shoulder - I don’t think I will ever fully recover from this experience. I wasn't treated as humans should treat one another.''

At Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester, Davies, from Salford, Greater Manchester, admitted kidnap and blackmail and was jailed for six years and four months.

Steven Wynnyk, 41, from Oldham was jailed for nine years after he was convicted of kidnap, blackmail and assault occasioning actual bodily harm. He had denied wrongdoing.

Sentencing the pair, Judge Mark Savill said the allegations against Mr Kennedy were ''wholly without foundation" adding: ''This serious criminality amounted to gratuitous, prolonged thuggery and intimidation.

''This was an innocent man who was effectively taken hostage, intimidated and assaulted by both of you with constant threat of violence hanging over his head after he was exposed to entirely baseless allegations.

''It was wholly unjustified and wicked accusation that Mr Kennedy had in some way abused your daughter.

''I reject this was a misplaced attempt to get to the truth because there were demands for money as compensation.

''This kind of misconceived mob handed justice, if you can call it that, really has no place in our society. What happened to Mr Kennedy comes under the heading of torture.''

The court heard Kennedy had moved in with Davies in June last year after they rekindled their romance over Facebook.

The attack on August 4 last year began when he met up with her at Wynnyk's home in Oldham.

Initially Wynnyk told Kennedy to go to an ATM to withdraw £140 for Davies to ''have her lips done'' but once back at the property began hitting him.

Robert Dudley, prosecuting, said: ''Mr Kennedy was slapped and at that point Davies accused him of touching her daughter and of being a 'pervert' and a 'paedophile'. He was hit on the back of the head and was told to take his shoes and socks off.

''Boiling water was poured over him and he was told to admit to sexual abuse.

"Incidentally both defendants knew Mr Kennedy was in line for a significant inheritance from his father and a cut throat razor was held to his throat.

''He was then taken back to his car and told to lie on the back seat with a towel over his head and they all went to a cashpoint where Davies used Mr Kennedy's pin-code to take out £60.

''They then went to a meet someone they knew who told them Mr Kennedy needed to go to hospital but they refused and instead threatened to take to his mother. Ahead of this, they decided to get a video confession from him and stopped on wasteland.

''He said he hadn't done anything but they continued to hit him and burnt his right forearm with cigarettes."

Davies and Wynnyk were arrested at his home on August 6.

Officers found the metal pipe with taped handle used to beat Mr Kennedy.

She later tried to claim Kennedy had abused the little girl but when pressed for evidence to back up and claim admitted: ''I had been drinking. Me and my mate did the wrong thing.''

Wynnyk gave no comment in police interview but later described the kidnap to a probation officer as ''an unfortunate turn of events''.

In mitigation for Davies, defence counsel David Thomson claimed his client was a ''reluctant participant'' and had been the subject of previous abusive relationships.

He added: ''She played a subservient role in what happened. Her motivation was to determine if anything happened to her daughter.''

For Wynnyk, barrister Michael Scholes said: ''It was a bizarre and hysterical reaction to false allegations raised by Sarah Davies.

"There was an addled perception Mr Kennedy had sexually abused Mrs Davies' daughter and that was then followed by joint hysteria and he was swept along with it.''