BENJAMIN Mendy has today arrived at court charged with seven counts of rape.

The Manchester City star was last month bailed after spending five months in custody following his arrest in August.

Mendy, 27, is accused of seven counts of rape and one of sexual assault against five women aged over 16.

He was pictured arriving at Chester Crown Court today in a dark coat and a face mask.

Mendy spent 134 days in prison after breaching bail conditions following his arrest on suspicion of several sex offences.

Judge Patrick Thompson released him from custody during a private hearing last month but imposed a list of "stringent" conditions.

He must surrender his passport and make no contact with complainants.

Mendy must also stay at his six bedroom, £4.8million mansion in Cheshire.

It came after Mendy was charged with a seventh rape count.

The fresh offence relates to a new complainant and is alleged to have taken place in July last year.

Mendy was already facing six rape counts against four women when the new charge was added.

One of these was carried out on August 23 - just three days before he was charged, it is said.

It is the second rape Mendy allegedly committed while on police bail after his arrest in November.

Mendy is also accused of raping a woman three times at Cheshire mansion in October 2020.

A provisional trial date on June 27 has been set.

Co-defendant Louis Saha Matturie, 40 is accused of six counts of rape and one sexual assault.

He last played for the club on August 15 during their 1-0 defeat to Tottenham at the start of the season.

In September 2020, City boss Pep Guardiola revealed Mendy would be out of the game for at least a month due to an injury.

In a statement, the club said: “Manchester City can confirm that following his being charged by police today, Benjamin Mendy has been suspended pending an investigation.

“The matter is subject to a legal process and the club is therefore unable to make further comment until that process is complete.”