YOUR iPhone used to show battery percentage – until it didn't.

Thankfully there are ways to see your battery percentage, even on newer models.

When Apple introduced the iPhone X, it came with an all-screen front and a small "notch" jutting into the display.

This ate into the Status Bar – taking up room and ultimately killing off battery percentage.

The same has been true for the iPhone XS, iPhone XR, iPhone 11 and iPhone 12.

There was some hope that battery percentage would return after Apple shrank the notch with the new iPhone 13.

Sadly, it's still missing in action – so you'll have to resort to different methods.

There are at least five different ways to quickly view your battery percentage.

Unfortunately Apple hasn't designed a way to put the battery percentage in its original spot next to the battery symbol.

But there are very good options regardless.

The easiest way by far is the use the Control Centre.

When your iPhone is unlocked, swipe down from the top-right corner.

This launches the Control Centre, showing your battery percentage in the top right.

It even works when your iPhone is locked, if you haven't restricted that setting.

Another option is to add a Home Screen widget.

Widgets were introduced in iOS 14 and kept on through iOS 15.

First, check you're using the right iPhone version – go to Settings > General > Software Update.

Now tap and hold on your Home Screen (but not on an app), and the tap the + symbol in the corner.

Find the Batteries widget (medium or large) and place it on your Home Screen.

There's also another screen where you can place widgets: the Today View.

Swipe right on the Home Screen to pull the Today View from the left.

Press and hole somewhere (but not on a widget) and then tap the + icon in the corner.

Choose the Batteries widget (medium or large) and place it somewhere convenient.

Then swipe to the Today View whenever you want to check your battery percentage.

If you're the chatty type, you can ask Siri.

Just say "Hey Siri, what's my iPhone battery percentage?" out loud and she'll tell you.

It's as easy as that.

You can also install Apple Watch apps that can monitor your iPhone battery percentage.

A simple search in the App Store will allow you to do this – try Battery Life.

Then you can quickly see how much battery life your iPhone has left without having to touch it.
• Get the latest on Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram

In other news, Google Chrome users have been urged to delete their browser.

Check out the best iPhone 13 deals.

And take a look at your hidden Facebook rejection folder.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at tech@the-sun.co.uk