CHRIS Eubank Jr's showdown with Liam Williams finally takes place this weekend after the fight was delayed on two occasions.

SunSport are on hand with the latest odds, tips from our experts and the best free bets offers from some of the UK's leading bookies.

Initially the bout was put on hold last December after Williams suffered a shoulder injury while the bout was delayed again on January 29 after the British Boxing Board of Control suspended all UK boxing in January.

The fight now takes place on Friday evening at the Motorpoint Arena in Cardiff as Welshman Williams fights in front of a home crowd.

Former IBO super-middleweight champion Eubank Jr beat Wanik Awdijan last time out to take his record to 31 and two.

While Williams lost to Demetrius Andrade in their WBO middleweight title showdown.

Eubank Jr is the ODDS-ON favourite to win the showdown on Saturday evening while Williams is priced at 2/1 to cause an upset on home soil.

In sixty shared fights and five defeats neither man has been knocked out, Williams has been stopped once but only when his trainer pulled him out with a career-threatening cut to his eye.

Williams is the hard-hitting Welshman who only popped up to middleweight in 2018 - from his usual super-welter stomping ground - for a late-notice crack at the British title he won and then went on a sensational five-fight stoppage rampage.

The excellently awkward Demetrius Andrade ended that streak in May when Williams failed in his WBO world title bid against the 31-0 American and now he rebuilds instantly with a must-win battle.

Eubank Jr has proven his chin up at super-middle against the likes of George Groves and James DeGale but his last two showings - his first two bouts under new trainer Roy Jones Jr - have underwhelmed.

This looks like a nailed-on 12-round fight, a bloody one at that as both Brits have suffered gashes in the past and always steam forward.

Adam Booth is in Williams' corner for the first time and, while a master tactician and trainer, he always insists on protecting his fighters foremost and has pulled out star names like David Haye and Josh Kelly when they have been hurt and in trouble.

Compare that to Eubank Jr’s OTT vow that his corner never even takes a white towel to the ring for that very same signal of surrender.

Williams is definitely the technically more gifted boxer and a points win in front of his Cardiff crowd looks attractive.

If Eubank is going to use his size and engine to grind Williams down in the Dragon’s den, then a stoppage in the second half - rounds 7-12 - looks most alluring.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

Paddy Power: Bet £20 and get it back as Cash if it Loses – CLAIM HERE

*New customers only. Place your FIRST bet on any sportsbook market and if it loses we will refund your stake in CASH. Max refund for this offer is £20. Only deposits made using Cards or Apple Pay will qualify for this promotion. T&Cs apply. Paddy's Rewards Club: Get a £10 free bet when you place 5x bets of £10+. T&Cs apply. 18+ Begambleaware.org

Betfair: Get a £20 free bet when you place £50 worth of bets. Repeat up to 5 times – CLAIM HERE

New customers place £50 worth of bets to receive £20 in free bets. Repeat up to 5 times to receive maximum £100. Min odds 1.2 (1/5). Multiple bets included. Exchange bets excluded. Payment restrictions apply. T&Cs apply. 18+ begambleaware.org

William Hill: Bet £10 and get £40 in free bets - CLAIM HERE

18+. Play Safe. When you sign-up via Mobile using promo code N40 and place a bet of £10/€10 or more we will give you 4x £10/€10 free bets credited after settlement of first qualifying bet, free bets will expire 30 days after the qualifying bet is placed, payment method/player/country restrictions apply. begambleaware.org

Sky Bet: Get £20 in free bets - CLAIM HERE

NEW CUSTOMERS ONLY. FIRST SINGLE & E/W BET ONLY. ODDS OF 1/1 OR GREATER. 4 X £10 BET TOKEN. FREE BET STAKES NOT INCLUDED IN RETURNS. FREE BETS FOR HORSE RACING & FOOTBALL ONLY. FREE BETS ARE NON WITHDRAWABLE. NO FREE BET EXPIRY. ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS AND FURTHER T&CS APPLY. 18+. BEGAMBLEAWARE.ORG.

New customers only. Min deposit £10
• A qualifying bet is a ‘real money’ stake of at least £10
• Min odds 1/2 (1.5)
• Free Bets credited upon qualifying bet settlement and expires after 7 days
• Free Bet stakes not included in returns
• Casino Bonus must be claimed within 7 days
• To withdraw bonus/related wins, wager bonus amount x40 within 14 days
• Casino bonus expires after 60 days
• Withdrawal restrictions & full T&Cs apply 18+ begambleaware.org

Commercial content notice: Taking one of the bookmaker offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun. 18+. T&Cs apply. Begambleaware.org

A responsible gambler is someone who:
• Only gambles with money they can afford to lose