A PAEDIATRICIAN has revealed that babies can have their first “period” just after they are born - which can startle parents.

It’s completely normal, however, and may be seen in as many as one in four newborn girls.

Called sudo menses, or false menses, it causes a very small amount of blood which may just be visible as a small smear in a nappy.

Then, the baby girl won’t have another period for a decade or longer, when puberty starts kicking in.

Dr Carole Keim MD, a pediatrician in Boulder, Colorado, affiliated with San Luis Valley Health-Alamosa, told her TikTok followers: “Yes this is so true.

“Baby girls can have a little period once they are born.

“It usually happens around day three to five of life if it's going to happen at all.

“It can happen in as many as 25 per cent of baby girls, and it usually only lasts a day or less."

Dr Keime reassured parents that they need not worry when they see blood.

She said: “It doesn't hurt them, it's just a normal thing.

“It can be really scary to open the diaper and see bright red blood. But a lot of the time you can see it’s coming out of the vagina and it is not mixed in with the poop.”

Dr Keim, also author of “The Baby Manual”, went on to explain why the phenomenon occurs.

She said it was due to a hormonal withdrawal that babies experience when they leave the mum’s womb, where they are absorbing the mum’s hormones.

Dr Keim likened it to the break on the contraceptive pill.

Every three weeks, a woman on the combined oral pill will stop taking it for a week, or take dummy pills, and this causes the bleed.

“The same things happen in newborn girls,” Dr Keim said.

“They have all these grown up hormones inside of them, when they are inside mum, and then when they come out, and those hormones go away and it can trigger a little bit of a period."

Both gendered babies can also lactate, Dr Keim revealed in the comment section of the video, viewed by more than 6,000 people.

This is called neonatal galactorrhea, but sometimes goes by “witch’s milk”, due to a 17th century belief that witches would come and steal this milk for use in their magic, Healthline reports.

Dr Sarah Jarvis, GP and Clinical Director of Patient.info, told The Sun that a baby girl’s vaginal lips (labia) may also be slightly enlarged, and there may be some milky discharge, due to hormone withdrawal.

Speaking of the baby’s “first period”, she said: "Having a baby who suddenly starts bleeding from their vagina when she’s just a few days old is likely to be pretty scary.

"But in fact, as long as she’s well in herself and it settles on its own within a few days, it’s usually nothing to worry about.”

"After your baby is born, they’re no longer exposed to the same hormones.

"As her oestrogen levels drop, your baby may have a small amount of vaginal bleeding.

"If it doesn’t settle, or if she’s unwell in any way, speak to your midwife or GP for advice."