The Grand National is the best known steeplechase in the world in which 40 runners tackle the daunting obstacles of Aintree's 30 Grand National fences over the course of four-and-a-half miles.

The entire three-day meeting is watched each year by more than 500 million people across 140 countries, with 2022 set to be no different.

Here, you can find out all you need to know about the race.

The National is the highlight of Aintree's Grand National meeting which this year runs Thursday, April 7 to Saturday, April 9. The main event will be on the Saturday.

What time does the big race start?

The runners will go to post for 5.15pm.

Where is the Grand National?

The meeting takes place at Aintree Racecourse, just six miles outside of Liverpool. It has hosted the race since 1839.

How can I watch the race? What TV channel is it on?

The Festival usually welcomes over 150,000 racing fans, with embankment and hospitality tickets still available. Alternatively, live coverage is likely to be on ITV and Racing TV.

Which horses are running in the Grand National?

The 40-runner line-up, as well as reserves in case there are any late withdrawn runners, will be officially confirmed on April 7.

On April 8, the final runners are declared and, after this point, if there are any withdrawals the reserves will no longer be able to replace non-runners - meaning fewer than 40 horses will run.

What are the latest Grand National winner odds?

The current odds being offered on the five favourites by Paddy Power antepost - before the runners are confirmed at the final declaration stage - are as follows:

Any Second Now 16/1

What are some of the famous fences of the course?

The Aintree fences are not quite as perilous as they were once upon a time after a series of alterations. However, they are still the most notorious obstacles in the business and enough to make the palms of any jockey sweat.

Becher's Brook: The sixth and 22nd fence in the race may not be the biggest, but it's difficulty comes from the fact the landing side is 10 inches lower than the take off side. Named after Captain Martin Becher, a jockey who fell at this stage and hid in the brook to avoid injury.

Valentine's Brook: Named after a horse that allegedly jumped it backwards in 1840. More likely, the horse spun around in mid-air to create the optical illusion that its hind legs landed first.

The Chair: The tallest fence on the course now stands at five foot two inches.

Foinavon: One of the smaller fences is named after the 100/1 shot who avoided a disastrous pile-up here in 1967 and went on to win.

Canal Turn: As the name suggests, horses must take a sharp turn to the left after jumping this five foot obstacle. Another Aintree myth is that horses used who refused to turn ended up in the Liverpool and Leeds canal.

This article has been updated with the latest information for the Grand National 2022.