Royal experts believe Prince Charles is likely to slim down the monarchy when he becomes king - but this is not the only change we should expect.

The future monarch has already indicated that during his reign he will take up residence in a flat above Buckingham Palace, as well as further opening up the residence to the public, according to reports.

Here, we explore what we can expect with Charles as sovereign, including what issues he will champion and what it means to be a Royal now.

What will the monarchy look like in the future?

The Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cambridge reportedly held a summit to decide the future of the monarchy over the next two generations following the death of the Duke of Edinburgh in April 2021.

The Prince of Wales has long favoured a slimmed-down monarchy, which was originally modelled around a tight core of seven people: the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh; the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall; the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, and Prince Harry.

Although Prince Harry is not in the direct line of succession, his role would have been to support the monarch until the Duke of Cambridge’s children were old enough to take on royal duties themselves.

But following the departure of the Sussexes from royal life - as well as Prince Andrew no longer undertaking official duties - there are "too few royals to go around" compared to what the public are used to.

Royal sources explained that the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cambridge, with the help of the Queen, will have to decide over the coming months whether the monarchy should continue with its traditional model of thousands of engagements each year, spread out between a broad base of full-time and part-time working royals, or cut down the number of engagements and patronages and use fewer members of the family to fulfil them.

One source said: "The question is whether you start off by deciding how many patronages and engagements there should be, and then work out how many people are needed to achieve them, or whether you decide how many people there should be, which will dictate how many engagements and patronages they can take on."

Camilla Tominey, in her Royal Insights video from October 2021 (available to watch below), said: "There's this sense that Charles wants a slimmed down monarchy to make sure that everybody is doing their bit and [there are] no so-called hangers-on."