The most indulgent day of the year is almost here again. No, we’re not talking about Easter, it’s Pancake Day. The one date in the calendar when you can absolutely eat the same dish for breakfast, lunch and dinner – without guilt, without shame.

Shrove Tuesday falls a little later in 2022, meaning the anticipation is rising. Seasoned flippers have been practising, supermarkets have been stocking up on their alternative toppings, and – free from the Covid restrictions of past years – invites to so-called ‘Pancake Parties’ have been sent (or so we’ve heard).

So, get your eggs, flour, milk and butter ready, grease up the pan, and don your apron. Here is everything you need to know about this year’s traditional feast day, from why we celebrate to how to ensure your pancakes are as fluffy as clouds.

What is Pancake Day – and why do we celebrate it?

Pancake Day has been celebrated in Britain for centuries as the feast day before Ash Wednesday, when the fasting season begins.

Historically, Anglo-Saxon Christians would go to confession on Shrove Tuesday to be absolved of their sins, before indulging in rich fat-based foods to use up ingredients ahead of Lent.

However, it is believed that the Christian Pancake Day was in fact borrowed from an old pagan festival to welcome the arrival of spring. Circular, hot pancakes were seen to symbolise the sun, providing those who ate them with the sun’s power and strength.

What does Shrove Tuesday mean?

Shrove Tuesday originates from the Old English word ‘shrive’, which means to give absolution once hearing confession, usually by a Priest. The day marks the end of Pre-Lenten Season, also known as Shrovetide.

Why is Pancake Day on a different date each year?

The exact date of Pancake Day changes year on year as it is determined by when Easter falls – which can also differ annually due to the spring equinox.

Shrove Tuesday is always celebrated the day before Ash Wednesday, which takes place 40 days before Easter to represent Jesus' 40 days spent fasting in the desert.

How do I flip my pancake perfectly?

The all-important question. Many a family argument has been sparked due to over-confident flips and splattered batter, resulting in tears, tantrums and reluctant clean-ups. So, what is the secret to a slick flick of the wrist?
• Make sure you use a non-stick pan, greased with a little oil
• If the edges of the pancake don't come away from the sides of the pan when you give it a gentle shake, it's not ready to be flipped
• Be confident, and use the same action as you would when tossing a stir-fry

How to make the perfect pancake mix