What events are planned for the Queen's Jubilee celebrations?

From May 12-15, the Platinum Jubilee Celebration will see more than 500 horses and 1,000 performers create a 90-minute piece of arena theatre that will include actors and artists, musicians, international military displays, dancers and global equestrian displays.

The show takes place in the same arena used by the Royal Windsor Horse Show during the day and is the fourth in a series of events at the same venue that have marked significant moments in the life of The Queen.

The production will take the audience on a gallop through history from Elizabeth I to the present day.

Simon Brooks-Ward, the event’s producer and director, has said that the celebration will be “very theatrical”, with respectfully “joyful, humorous, fun” elements alongside the reverential.

An acting troupe of “Queen’s Players” will appear, in a nod to Shakespeare, along with the Household Cavalry and King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery, and “box office artists” in the weeks prior to the main celebrations.

Dame Helen Mirren and Stephen Fry have already helped to launch the event, dubbed A Gallop Through History, and will raise money for charities including those supporting the NHS and key workers.

The late May bank holiday has been moved to the Thursday and an additional bank holiday added on Friday June 3 to create a four-day weekend, and pub opening hours are being extended to 1am.

On Thursday, June 2, the Queen will attend the Trooping the Colour. More than 1,400 parading soldiers, 1,000 dancers and musicians and 500 horses will gather at Buckingham Palace and proceed down The Mall to Horse Guard's Parade, joined by Members of the Royal family on horseback and in carriages.

The event will be closed by an RAF flypast, which will be watched by the Queen and other royals from the Palace balcony.

The same day, more than 1,500 beacons will be lit across the UK and in Commonwealth capital cities, with the principal beacon set aflame in a special ceremony at the Palace.

Friday, June 3, will see a 'Service of Thanksgiving' take place at St Paul's Cathedral.

On Saturday, June 4, the Queen and members of her family will attend the Derby at Epsom before the Platinum Party at the Palace, which will be staged and broadcast by the BBC.

Buckingham Palace are yet to name the performers but have said the live concert “will bring together some of the world’s biggest entertainment stars to celebrate the most significant and joyous moments from the Queen’s seven-decade reign”.

Members of the public will be invited to apply to attend via a ballot for UK residents.

The prestigious Derby is the only Classic in the Flat racing calendar the Queen is yet to win and it would be a dream come true for the monarch to achieve this with a runner in her jubilee year.

Finally on Sunday, June 5, people will be encouraged to arrange street parties to join the Big Jubilee Lunch, before the final event of the weekend, the Platinum Jubilee Pageant.

A lunchtime picnic, The Windsor Big Lunch, is expected to become the longest ever held.

A dragon puppet larger than a double-decker bus, marching bands and circus acts will celebrate the Queen's reign on the streets of London.

Organisers said the event, with a privately funded budget of between £10 million and £15 million, is expected to be one of the biggest celebratory events held for decades.

Nicholas Coleridge, the co-chairman of the pageant, said the whole Jubilee "will be something of a reopening ceremony for the United Kingdom, following a period of uncertainty and hardship, a catalysing moment of unity and fun".

A trapeze artist suspended underneath a huge balloon printed with an image of the Queen will be among the performers, along with marching military bands and a nod to the monarch's fondness for corgis and horses.

A specially written fairy story There Once Is A Queen by renowned author Sir Michael Morpurgo will be brought to life through artists, and a River Of Hope, made up of 200 silk flags designed by school children, will make its way along the Mall.

It is not yet clear which events the Queen will attend herself.

Sandringham and Balmoral will also be open for visitors to enjoy the celebrations across the long weekend in June.

Three special displays marking significant occasions in the Queen’s reign – the Accession, the Coronation and Jubilees – will be staged at the official royal residences from July 2022.

This is set to include a range of portraits as well as the jewellery and outfits worn for each occasion, housed at Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle and the Palace of Holyroodhouse.

What other information has been announced?

As the date draws closer, further plans have been made for the occasion.

The emblem for the Platinum Jubilee was announced in August 2021, following a competition that was judged by industry experts.

The winner of the competition was 19-year-old graphic design student, Edward Roberts. His design was a regal purple, featuring a stylised crown drawn with an unbroken line, which incorporated the number 70.

Mr Roberts, from Southwell in Nottinghamshire, said at the time: "It’s just an amazing feeling to win it, I couldn’t believe I’d won it really. I thought I had achieved something by getting to the top 100 so to win it – I was over the moon.”