Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine received full approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the company announced Monday.

The decision comes more than a year after Moderna's vaccine – with a brand name of Spikevax – was first granted the FDA's "emergency use authorization." About 204 million doses have since been administered in the U.S., according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

"The totality of real-world data and the full (license) for Spikevax in the United States reaffirms the importance of vaccination against this virus. This is a momentous milestone in Moderna's history as it is our first product to achieve licensure in the U.S.," Stéphane Bancel, Moderna's CEO, said in a statement.

The full approval is for individuals 18 and older in the two-dose primary series for vaccination. The booster dose is available under emergency use authorization.

Acting FDA Commissioner Dr. Janet Woodcock said in a statement the approval "may instill additional confidence" for those who have not yet been vaccinated.

"The public can be assured that Spikevax meets the FDA’s high standards for safety, effectiveness and manufacturing quality required of any vaccine approved for use in the United States," Woodcock said.

Also in the news:

►Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin reaffirmed to seven governors the need for members of their states’ Army and Air National Guards to get the mandatory COVID-19 vaccine, telling them losing the members' services to infections "jeopardizes our ability to meet mission requirements.”

►Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, says on a Twitter thread that approximately 60-70% of unvaccinated adults have contracted the coronavirus but still make up the vast majority of the COVID hospitalizations, "Which tells us a lot about infection-induced immunity.''

►Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tested positive for COVID-19, he said Monday. Trudeau said he was feeling fine and planned to work remotely.

►The coronavirus doesn't get transmitted from infected mothers to their babies through breast milk, according to a new study published in the Pediatric Research journal.

►Beijing 2022 organizers reported 71 new cases of COVID-19 over the weekend, bringing the total to almost 250 cases linked to the Winter Olympics as the opening ceremonies are set for Friday.

►Some European countries are easing their COVID-19 restrictions: Finland will end all restrictions next month, Prime Minister Sanna Marin said Monday. Austria, which has a national vaccine mandate that goes into effect Tuesday, will also ease measures in February. Denmark is set to scrap its restrictions Tuesday.

📈Today's numbers: The U.S. has recorded more than 74.8 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and more than 886,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University data. Global totals: More than 377 million cases and over 5.6 million deaths. More than 211 million Americans – 63.8% – are fully vaccinated, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

📘What we're reading: States were sharing COVID-19 test kits. Then omicron hit. Here's how it's affecting testing across the nation.

Keep refreshing this page for the latest news. Want more? Sign up for USA TODAY's free Coronavirus Watch newsletter to receive updates directly to your inbox and join our Facebook group.

California Gov. Newsom says he was 'judicious' after criticism over maskless photo at Rams-49ers game

California Gov. Gavin Newsom responded Monday to harsh criticism after he and several other prominent elected officials were photographed without masks at the Los Angeles Rams-San Francisco 49ers NFC championship game Sunday.

"I was very judicious yesterday," he said at a Monday news conference. "I took a photo. The rest of the time I wore it as we all should."

The photos posted to social media showed Newsom, along with others including L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti, San Francisco Mayor London Breed and actor Rob Lowe – posing maskless with former L.A. Lakers great Magic Johnson, who was not wearing a face covering either. Critics said the group was violating the state's indoor mask mandate, which applies regardless of vaccination status.

Several of those in the photographs are seen with masks in their hands, including Garcetti and Lowe. Newsom said he also was holding one. Asked whether he should have remained masked for the photo because of the message it sends to the public and his well-publicized previous gaffe, Newsom came just short of calling it a mistake.

"I made a mis– ... I was trying to be gracious, and I took off the mask for a brief second, but no, I encourage people to wear them," he said.

In November 2020, when California was shut down and residents were being encouraged to skip gatherings for the holidays, Newsom was photographed without a mask at a dinner party in a lavish restaurant in Napa Valley, sparking much criticism.

'Stealth omicron' more infectious but no more elusive of vaccines, early data indicates

The new sublineage of the omicron variant known in some quarters as "stealth omicron'' does not appear to be more resistant to vaccine protection than its better-known cousin, but there are early indications it could be more infectious.

According to preliminary data from Denmark, where the new subvariant – technically known as BA.2 – has become the dominant strain, stealth omicron is 1.5 times more transmissible than the already highly contagious original omicron (BA.1).

However, a study conducted by the UK's Health Security Agency shows vaccine boosters are similarly protective against both, and even slightly more against the newer version, which has been detected in more than 50 countries, including the U.S.

"The evidence is clear the vaccine helps to protect us all against the effects of COVID-19 and the booster is offering high levels of protection from hospitalization and death in the most vulnerable members of our society," said Dr. Mary Ramsay, head of immunization at the HSA.

In a Sunday interview on CBS's "Face the Nation,'' former FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb said widespread omicron infections in the U.S. should immunize much of the population against the new version, which he estimated makes up about 5% of cases nationwide.

"I don't think it really changes the narrative,'' Gottlieb said of the stealth omicron. "It maybe, perhaps extends the tail on the decline that we're seeing across the country.''

British PM Boris Johnson 'sorry,' but won't heed calls to step down

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson apologized Monday after an inquiry found Downing Street parties while the country was in lockdown represented a “serious failure” to observe the standards expected of government or to recognize the sacrifices made by millions during the pandemic. But Johnson disregarded calls to resign.

"I am sorry for the things we simply didn't get right and also sorry for the way this matter has been handled," Johnson said.

The interim findings of the investigation reveal a culture of excessive alcohol consumption, a disconnect with the hardships endured by regular citizens and fear among staffers to speak out about workplace issues.

The allegations that the prime minister and his staff flouted restrictions imposed on the country to curb the spread of the coronavirus – holding “bring your own booze” office parties, birthday celebrations and “wine time Fridays” – have caused public anger, led some Conservative lawmakers to call for Johnson’s resignation and triggered intense infighting inside the governing party.

The published findings by senior civil servant Sue Gray, who wrote that "some of the behavior surrounding these gatherings is difficult to justify,” relate to only four of the 16 events she investigated. Police have asked that the rest of the conclusions be withheld while they conduct their own inquiry into the most serious alleged rules violations.

Two New York nurses accused of making $1.5 million off fake vaccination cards

Nurses have gained widespread admiration for their indispensable and sometimes heroic work during the pandemic. However, not all live up to those lofty standards.

Two Long Island nurses have been arrested and accused of making more than $1.5 million by selling fake COVID-19 vaccination cards, authorities said. Julie DeVuono and Marissa Urraro are accused of handing out vaccination cards and charging $220 for adults and $85 for children, according to the Suffolk County, New York, district attorney’s office.

Prosecutors said they entered false information into New York's immunization database. The nurses' scheme was foiled when an undercover detective was given a vaccination card but was not administered the vaccine, authorities said.

A Department of Homeland Security COVID-19 vaccine mandate, which took effect Jan. 22, is expected to severely restrict the travel of thousands of H-2A seasonal guest workers this year. The H-2A program allows agricultural employers to bring foreign workers to the United States for agricultural labor or services on a temporary or seasonal basis.

DHS announced the restrictions on Jan. 20, requiring non-U.S. individuals seeking to enter the U.S. via land ports of entry and ferry terminals at the U.S.-Mexico and U.S.-Canada borders to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and provide related proof of vaccinations.

Sarah Black, general manager of Great Lakes Ag Labor Services, an ag labor agency focused on H-2A seasonal visas, said the requirements could spell trouble for the country's food chain as several farm operations have workers scheduled to begin arriving within the next two weeks.

Additionally, the mandate requires proof of a “CDC-approved COVID-19 vaccination, as outlined on the CDC website,” which could present a challenge for workers from Mexico, where it is not as easy to get a vaccination.

Following protests of Spotify kicked off by Neil Young over the spread of COVID-19 vaccine misinformation, the music streaming service said that it will add content advisories before podcasts discussing the virus.

In a post Sunday, Spotify chief executive Daniel Ek laid out more transparent platform rules given the backlash stirred by Young, who on Wednesday had his music removed from Spotify after the tech giant declined to get rid of episodes of “The Joe Rogan Experience,” which has been criticized for spreading virus misinformation.

Ek said the advisories will link to Spotify’s fact-based COVID-19 hub in what he described as a “new effort to combat misinformation.” It will roll out in the coming days, Ek said. He did not specifically reference Rogan or Young.

Rogan responded to the fallout on Sunday, saying in a video on Instagram that he was only seeking to have conversations on his podcast with people who have “differing opinions.” Rogan promised to bring more balance to the guests he books for his show and welcomed the idea of adding advisories before podcasts related to COVID-19. “Sure, have that on there. I’m very happy with that,” he said.

Police in Canada said Sunday that they have launched several criminal investigations in relation to the "desecration" of the country's National War Memorial after thousands of demonstrators gathered in Ottawa to protest vaccine mandates and COVID-19 related restrictions.

Ottawa police said they were also looking into activity at the statue of Terry Fox, a Canadian athlete who raised awareness for cancer research, as well as threatening behavior directed toward police and city workers.

Some protesters parked on the grounds of the National War Memorial and danced on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier while others carried signs and flags with swastikas.