Mason Greenwood, the Manchester United player arrested on suspicion of rape, assault, sexual assault and threats to kill, has been bailed pending further investigation.

The 20-year-old striker was detained at his Cheshire home at the weekend after a series of social media images appeared online, believed to have been posted by a woman who claimed she had been assaulted.

He was initially arrested on suspicion of rape and assault and held for questioning.

On Tuesday Greater Manchester Police said they had further arrested a 20-year-old man on suspicion of sexual assault and threats to kill and had been granted more time to continue questioning him. Greater Manchester Police (GMP) have not officially named the man in custody.

In an update issued on Wednesday morning a GMP spokesman said: “A 20-year-old man arrested on Sunday 30 January 2022 on suspicion of the rape and assault of a woman has been released on bail pending further investigation.”

In a statement issued on Tuesday, a spokesman for his football club said: "Manchester United reiterates its strong condemnation of violence of any kind.

"As previously communicated, Mason Greenwood will not train with, or play for, the club until further notice."

Mr Greenwood, who was born in Bradford, West Yorkshire, has been with Manchester United from the age of six and has also made one senior appearance for the England national team.

A number of the player’s sponsors have also reacted.

EA Sports statement confirmed the player had been removed from the Fifa 22 computer game.

A spokesman for the firm said: "Mason Greenwood has been removed from active squads in FIFA 22 and has also been suspended from appearing in FIFA Ultimate Team (FUT) packs and Ultimate Draft."

Man United's shirt sponsors TeamViewer said they were "closely monitoring developments"

Cadbury, an official partner of United, also said in a statement: "Cadbury does not condone violence in any form. Our Partnership is with the Club itself and not the individual players."

"However, while these allegations are being investigated, any marketing or products we create with Manchester United will not feature this player. We will continue to monitor the situation closely."

United have also removed all Mason Greenwood merchandise from the club website.

Nike have already confirmed they have suspended their relationship with Greenwood.