England head north to try and get revenge on Scotland in the opening round of the 2022 Six Nations. For the first time in 38 years, Scotland won at Twickenham and Eddie Jones' side will be eager to get their hands back on the Calcutta Cup.

What is it?

The second match of the 2022 Six Nations as Scotland host England at Murrayfield.

When is it?

What TV channel is it on?

Who is the referee?

Referee: Ben O’Keeffe (NZR), who has history with Eddie Jones and England.

What is the latest squad news?

Gregor Townsend named five uncapped players in Scotland's 39-man squad for the upcoming Guinness Six Nations.

Saracens back-rower Andy Christie and London Irish scrum-half Ben White are two of the new faces in the pool.

Rory Darge, Ben Vellacott and Kyle Rowe are also rewarded with call-ups ahead of Scotland's first game of the championship against England at Murrayfield on Saturday February 5.

Bath centre Cameron Redpath, who enjoyed a memorable debut against England last year, has recovered from injury and will once again be in contention ahead of the Six Nations opener.

Ewan Ashman, Jamie Hodgson, Javan Sebastian, Pierre Schoeman, Rufus McLean and Sione Tuipulotu, who all received their first Scotland caps in the recent autumn Tests, are included once again.

Elsewhere there are call-ups for Edinburgh back-row Magnus Bradbury and prop WP Nel, who missed out on selection for the Autumn Nations, as well as Exeter lock Jonny Gray, who also returns.

Northampton centre Rory Hutchinson is included having not featured for Scotland in 2021.

Captain Stuart Hogg is joined by fellow British and Irish Lions Finn Russell, Ali Price, Zander Fagerson, Chris Harris, Rory Sutherland, Duhan van der Merwe and Hamish Watson.

Fraser Brown, Adam Hastings, Sean Maitland and George Horne are among the most notable omissions.

The squad will meet up at Oriam on Monday 24 January for a training camp before reconvening the following week ahead of the Calcutta Cup clash.

England's troubled build-up to the Guinness Six Nations has deteriorated further after forwards Courtney Lawes and Jonny Hill were ruled out of Saturday's opener against Scotland.

Lawes has failed to pass the return to play protocols for concussion in time for the Calcutta Cup clash at Murrayfield, while Hill is still struggling with a stress fracture to his lower leg.

Losing Lawes is a bitter blow for England as the Northampton flanker was set to deputise as captain for Owen Farrell, who will miss the entire Championship because of ankle surgery.

Until he was concussed - his last match was for Saints against Ulster on January 16 - the 32-year-old had produced the best rugby of his career over the previous six months.

He was a popular replacement for Farrell as skipper during a successful autumn and a youthful team that is in transition can ill afford to lose his 93 caps of experience for a tricky fixture in Edinburgh.

A stress fracture has prevented Hill from playing since Exeter faced Harlequins on January 8 but England were insistent as recently as Tuesday afternoon that he and Lawes were still in contention - despite their failure to train since first arriving into camp eight days earlier.

Eddie Jones has retained 16 forwards in a squad of 29 that will step up preparations for Scotland and names his team on Thursday morning.

England have now lost three of their first-choice back five forwards with flanker Sam Underhill missing from the Six Nations squad altogether because of his own concussion issues.

Wings Anthony Watson and Jonny May have been ruled out of the whole competition by knee injuries, while Manu Tuilagi has had his comeback for Sale delayed due to a hamstring problem.

Lawes will remain with the squad to continue his concussion protocols and attention will now turn to who leads England in his absence.

Tom Curry, Luke Cowan-Dickie and Ellis Genge are the vice captains with Curry the favourite to take charge.

"Eddie's got a good leadership team in place. Tom leads by example and with the intensity he trains at," forwards coach Matt Proudfoot said.

"Each one of the young guys who support Courtney have their own speciality in how they're leading."

England received some positive news after Joe Marler came through Tuesday's critical practise session having spent the last week in self-isolation because of Covid-19.

Marler is likely to provide bench cover for Genge against the Scots, although centre Joe Marchant is still quarantining due to coronavirus.

"Joe will be OK for Saturday. He trained flat out today. I had a scrummaging session with Joe and he's looking good," Proudfoot said.

What happened in this fixture in 2021?

Scotland defeated England at Twickenham for the first time in 38 years. In what was a turgid match, England's indiscipline was costly and they could not swing the momentum back in their favour.

Cameron Redpath, on his debut, was very impressive for Scotland and he will be back in the mix for this weekend having recovered from a long-term injury.

What are they saying?

England must end reputation of being slow starters - Scotland are favourites for Six Nations opener

In contrast, England have a very tricky opener at Murrayfield. The absences of Owen Farrell, Courtney Lawes and Joe Marler have shorn them yet further of leaders on the field. They will face a Scotland side desperate to build on a decent autumn international series and one who reversed 38 years of losses at Twickenham in last season’s Six Nations. The relatively settled nature of the Scotland side and Murrayfield make the Scots favourites and, if they were to win, they would go to Cardiff to face a Wales side who have to negotiate a difficult opening game away against Ireland. In that game the Irish are definitely favourites and should Wales lose they are facing the nightmare start identified above. In this scenario, a Scotland win would put them at the top of the table, either outright or with the French or Irish.

To read the full article, click here