The Six Nations begins in earnest this weekend, with matches in Dublin, Edinburgh and Paris kick-starting six weeks of international rugby bedlam - with a potential Grand Slam the top prize.

France, favourites to win the 2022 Six Nations with several bookmakers, kick off their quest for a first championship title since 2010 against Italy at the Stade de France.

What is it?

The third match of the 2022 Six Nations as France host perennial strugglers Italy in Paris.

When is it?

What TV channel is it on?

Who is the referee?

What is the latest squad news?

France head coach Fabien Galthie says star men Antoine Dupont and Romain Ntamack "are doing well" after each testing positive for coronavirus.

Les Bleus' preparation for the Six Nations has been severely disrupted by a host of withdrawals from Galthie's 42-man squad.

In addition to world player of the year Dupont and fly-half Ntamack, Francois Cros, Gaetan Barlot, Anthony Jelonch, Cyril Baille, Bernard Le Roux and Pierre Bourgarit were also removed due to Covid-19. They have all now been recalled, however, except for Bourgarit who is injured.

"We keep in touch with all the players from afar, of course," said Galthie.

"We have good news concerning the players and their state of health and spirit and all are doing well."

Speaking specifically about Dupont, Galthie - who expects to give further updates on his squad next week - said: "I have spoken to him: he is doing well. He resumed training two weeks ago.

"He wanted to play against Cardiff but the match did not go ahead. Then, of course, he tested positive for Covid. But he is fine, and is still training."

Despite the disruption, Les Bleus are tournament favourites with a number of bookmakers on the back of winning each of their three autumn matches, including beating New Zealand.

"I am very happy with this compliment, we're very happy and proud to be labelled as favourites," said Galthie.

"We are very happy to hear all those positive comments.

"It's very rewarding, it's rewarding for our two-year work, it's rewarding for all the commitment of the players, the virtues of the team and their dedication on the pitch."

Italian rugby great Sergio Parisse could still get the swansong he has longed for at the Six Nations next month, with coach Kieran Crowley saying he could be selected if fit and in form.

Italy's leading appearance maker was due to retire from international rugby after the 2019 World Cup before changing his mind, while the coronavirus pandemic put paid to a scheduled farewell appearance at last year's Six Nations.

Parisse declared himself available for this year's tournament, only to be omitted from the original squad with a wrist injury, but Crowley insisted the door is open for the 38-year-old to make his long-awaited farewell.

"He's always indicated that he would like to come back, if his form was up to it," coach Crowley told a news conference on Wednesday. "And he was playing very well, early in the season.

"So when I talked to him a couple of weeks ago, we decided that he needed to get back on the pitch and get back his competence and we can then reassess the situation after the England game (on Feb 13). If his form warrants it at that stage, we will consider him for selection.

"Certainly he is a player that before he had this injury was playing very well and deserved to be considered for selection."

Parisse's 142 international test caps trail only Wales' Alun Wyn Jones and New Zealand's Richie McCaw on the all-time list.

What happened in this fixture in 2021?

Antoine Dupont - who else? - was the star as France trounced Italy in Rome on the opening weekend of last year's Six Nations. Les Bleus put seven tries past the Azzurri to get their campaign up and running.

Could it be déjà vu on Sunday?

Read all about that day in Rome by clicking here.

What are they saying?

Referees talk too much and are too chummy with the players - it has to stop

One other area that needs to be addressed, and it is not a major issue yet but has been creeping in over recent months, is the amount referees talk to players. It comes up with the Welsh referees who I coach, who I am trying to get out of the habit. I see them talking almost too much with players, who talk them out of decisions. There is a time for communication and there needs to be a balance. But the more you talk in a game, the more you open yourself up to have a two-way conversation, and players feel they can talk to you about anything.

To read the full article, click here