It is advisable to take out your travel insurance at the time of booking your trip as cover will commence for pre- departure cancellation from the policy issue date. This will, therefore, provide cover should you have to cancel your trip for an insured reason such as illness or serious accident.

We strongly recommend that you and all members of your party are adequately insured, providing financial protection against unforeseen circumstances. Cover should include medical expenses and repatriation in the event of accident or illness. In addition, we strongly recommend that you have cover for personal belongings, delay at your outward or homeward point of departure, personal liability, overseas legal expenses and cancellation. If you are undertaking any sports or adventurous activities, including trekking, on your trip you should also make sure that your policy covers these. Please also ensure you read the policy conditions and exclusions.

The type of trips we create and the requirements of Audley clients vary greatly. We have therefore listed below a number of companies who offer policies which may suit these varying requirements. You can find links to the companies' websites, at www.audleytravel.com/insurance.

Other companies and policies are also available. We are unable to provide you with more detailed information and you should contact the company concerned directly for this. Please note this is general information only. We are not providing any specific advice on travel insurance or recommending any particular policy or insurer.

Trips of up to £5,000 pp

A large number of companies offer insurance policies which include cover for cancellation charges of up to the full holiday cost.

It can be more challenging to get insurance which includes cover for cancellation charges of up to the full holiday cost for higher value trips. A number of companies do, however, offer such policies. Thomson (in partnership with AXA) (0845 366 2212) offer cancellation cover up to £20,000 per person, American Express (0800 232

277) offer cancellation cover up to £12,500 per person and Insure and Go (0844 888 2787) offer cancellation cover up to £7,500 per person.

This information can also be found on our website www.audleytravel.com/insurance with links to the insurers’ websites.

Many companies now offer cover to people over 65 years of age. However, if you are finding it difficult to get cover you could try Age UK (0845 600 3348) or Saga (0800 015 0757) both of whom currently have no upper age limit on their policies. See also the companies referred to under pre-existing medical conditions below. This information can also be found on our website www.audleytravel.com/insurance with links to the insurers’ websites.

If you have a pre-existing medical condition, there are a number of companies that may be able to help you. P J Hayman / Free Spirit (0845 230 5000) will consider most pre-existing medical conditions and they have no upper age limit on single trip policies. Age UK (0845 600 3348) and Insure and Go (0844 888 2787) will also consider a number of pre- existing conditions and may be able to help. Cancer Travel Insurance Services (0845 880 0163) specialise in travel insurance for people with non-terminal cancer and have no upper age limit on their policies. This information can also be found at www.audleytravel.com/insurance with links to the insurers’ websites.

If you are not a UK resident you will usually need to get insurance in your country of residence. Some insurance companies, such as Columbus Direct (0845 888 8893), will consider policies for non-UK residents. This information can also be found on our website www.audleytravel.com/insurance with links to the insurers’ websites.

Once you have a travel insurance policy in place, please let your specialist know who your insurance company is and your policy number.

The above information is provided in good faith and is correct to the best of our knowledge. No liability is, however, accepted for any errors and all information must be checked directly with the insurance company.

We hold an Air Travel Organiser's Licence (ATOL) issued by the Civil Aviation Authority (ATOL number 4817). All the flight-inclusive holidays* that we provide are financially protected by the ATOL scheme. When you pay, you will be supplied with an ATOL Certificate. Please check to ensure that everything you booked is listed on it.

Please see our booking conditions for further information about financial protection and www.atol.org.uk/ATOLCertificate for further information on the ATOL Certificate.

*The flight inclusive holidays we arrange are ATOL protected providing they are made available in the UK. For further information, visit the ATOL website at www.atol.org.uk

Not all holiday or travel services offered and sold by us will be protected by the ATOL scheme. Those package arrangements which are not protected by our ATOL are covered by ABTOT, the Association of Bonded Travel Organisers Trust. This insurance means your money will be refunded or you will be returned to the starting point of your contracted arrangements if already abroad in the unlikely event of our being unable to provide your holiday due to our insolvency. (For more details please see Section 12 of the Terms and Conditions.) In these instances you will not receive an ATOL certificate with your invoice.

It is essential that you see your GP or a travel clinic before booking your trip and before travelling to make sure that you have taken all the necessary health precautions. Some vaccinations require more than one visit with a period of weeks between injections. You should visit your GP at least six weeks before departure. For up to date medical advice you may wish to use the Medical Advisory Service for Travellers Abroad (MASTA).

Before travelling abroad, you can visit www.masta-travel-health.com to obtain a ‘Health Brief’ specifically tailored to your journey. Your brief will give information about immunisations and malaria as well as any Foreign Office advice and the latest health news.

Other health information services are available, including www.nathnac.org and www.fitfortravel.nhs.uk

The majority of international airlines now issue advice on how to lessen the risk of DVT, however, if you have any concerns, we recommend that you consult your doctor.

It is essential that you advise us before booking if you have any disability or pre- existing medical condition which may affect your holiday, or any special requirements as a result of any disability or medical condition (including any which affect the booking process) so that we can assist you in considering the suitability of the arrangements and/or making the booking. It will also enable us to make sure you receive the relevant level of assistance when you fly.

Full details must be confirmed in writing at the time of booking and whenever any change in the condition or disability occurs. You must also promptly advise us if any medical condition or disability which may affect your holiday develops after your booking has been confirmed. The nature of many of the destinations we travel to means that in the majority of cases they are unsuitable for those who are wheelchair-bound or have a lack of mobility. We will be delighted to discuss the feasibility of creating a tailor-made itinerary for you that takes into consideration your level of mobility.

On our escorted group tours the Tour Leader is, unfortunately, unable to offer additional assistance to passengers with limited mobility and all such assistance will need to be provided by whoever the passenger is travelling with. We may request that you provide a letter from your doctor confirming your fitness to travel.

Your itinerary may include sections where the altitude exceeds 10,000 feet (3,048 metres). If you suffer from circulation, heart or respiratory problems we advise that you consult with your doctor before confirming your booking.

Airlines do not permit smoking on the aircraft. At the request of the majority of our clients we do not allow smoking on any form of transport used for our escorted group tours. Stops are regularly made where you will be able to smoke. For smokers travelling on a tailor-made tour we request that you check with your driver or guide whether smoking is permitted in the vehicle.

Each country has its own regulations and enforcement levels relating to health and safety standards. These do not always match the very high standards we are used to in the UK. We therefore recommend that you follow a few precautionary safety procedures. Always check where the nearest fire exit is and how to raise the fire alarm. Do not enter a swimming pool before checking the water depth first. For more suggestions please see the Important Information section in your Travel Organiser.

Passengers must hold a passport which is valid for at least six months following the return date of your holiday. British passport holders (full British Citizens) currently require visas, in advance of travel, for the following destinations featured in our brochures and on our website: Australia, Bhutan, Burma, China, Cuba, India, Kenya, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea (also available on arrival), Russia, Tanzania, Tibet, Uganda, the USA*, Uzbekistan and Vietnam**.

Visas may be required for other countries but can be arranged on arrival.

* British Citizens travelling to the USA require an ESTA – please speak to your specialist for more information

** Visitors to Vietnam can obtain a visa on arrival but require a letter of authorisation from ourselves – please speak to your specialist

We are normally able to obtain visas on your behalf, please ask for details at the time of booking. Non-British passport holders should check with the relevant embassies as visa requirements may be different to those of British passport holders. It is your responsibility to ensure you have the correct documentation and visa stamp(s) for all sectors of your journey. Failure or inability to obtain all required visas for whatever reason does not entitle you to cancel without paying the applicable cancellation charges.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office Travel Advice Unit monitors all overseas destinations and offers advice to British travellers. In order to be fully informed of safety issues, crime rates, political stability and local customs you can view the advice at www.gov.uk/foreign-travel- advice.

The difference between a direct flight and a non-stop flight can cause confusion. To clarify, on a direct flight no change of aircraft is scheduled but touchdowns will be made en route either to refuel or to board or disembark passengers. On non- stop flights no change of aircraft is required and no stops are made en route. Exact details of your route will be given in your itinerary.

If you require business or first class flights these can be arranged on most airlines at very competitive rates. Premium economy can be arranged on certain airlines, please call us for details.

We will do all we can to try to reserve a specific seat for you, if you have a preference. However, whilst airlines may allow us to request seats, they will not guarantee any specific seat reservation. If this is important to you, it is always best to arrive for your flight early, regardless of having made this request in advance. Please make it clear on your booking form if you have a specific request.

We generally use special ‘inclusive tour’ fares when we purchase your air tickets from the airlines. While these fares are very good value they are inflexible in terms of changes and offer no refunds once the tickets are issued. Once your flight is confirmed the airlines will charge an amendment fee or insist on the purchase of a completely new ticket if you make changes.

Smaller local airlines are often more likely to change their schedule at short notice. We will endeavour to inform you of any changes in advance of travelling but this may not always be possible.

If you collect points through any of the airline frequent flyer clubs please provide your membership details on the booking form and we will ensure that these are recorded against your flight reservation. Please note that on some of our specially negotiated ‘inclusive tour’ fares points are not always awarded.

Please let your specialist know if you would like to carbon offset your flights. We work with Friends of Conservation (FOC) and all offsetting payments are donated through them. For more details visit www.audleytravel.com/offset. The suggested contributions are based on the approximate levels of CO2 expended on an average flight, with the cost per tonne of carbon taken from industry averages. Flight information previously provided by TICOS, now part of Beyond Carbon.

We are able to arrange airport hotel accommodation, car parking, meet and greet services and airport lounge access in the UK, subject to availability. To arrange any of these services please call us on 01993 838 051.

There is often confusion over the terminology used for bed arrangements in hotel rooms. A ‘double’ is recognised as meaning a room with a double bed, this may be two single beds pushed together. A ‘twin’ is a room with two single beds. Please note that all rooms are allocated at the discretion of the hotel and cannot be guaranteed.

Single rooms tend to be smaller than double or twin rooms, however, many hotels do not have single rooms, in which case you will be allocated a twin or double room.

Special diets should be requested on the booking form; however, it is unrealistic to expect special diets to be catered for in some of the destinations we feature. We will advise the hotels and airlines of your request but we cannot guarantee their availability. If you have an airborne nut allergy you must make us aware at the time of booking as most airlines require this information in advance of travel.

We thoroughly check all the information that is included within our brochures, website and individual tour itineraries, however, changes do occur and errors are occasionally made. Airlines may change their schedules, roads may close and government regulations may alter. Should there be any changes to the travel arrangements you have booked we will do our best to keep you informed of the situation prior to departure.

Many of our destinations are in the developing world where attitudes, infrastructure, priorities, lifestyles and

cultures are very different from our own. This is often the very reason to visit the destination but certain aspects may be frustrating. We always advise that the first thing you should pack is your sense of humour. This can prove invaluable when travelling over rougher roads, waiting for a delayed aircraft and communicating with hotel staff whose first language is not English.

We will hold your name, address and any other details you supply us with on our database. This information will be used to make your travel arrangements and to send you information about Audley Travel. In order to make your travel arrangements we will need to pass your details to companies and individuals outside the EU where less stringent data protection controls may be in place. We will not pass on your details to third parties for any other purposes.

AITO is the Association for independent and specialist holiday companies. Our member companies, usually owner- managed, strive to create overseas holidays with high levels of professionalism and a shared concern for quality and personal service. The Association encourages the highest standards in all aspects of tour operating.

AITO sets criteria regarding ownership, finance and quality which must be satisfied before new companies are admitted to membership. All members are required to adhere to a Code of Business Practice which encourages high operational standards and conduct.

An AITO member is required to arrange financial protection for all holidays and other arrangements (including accommodation only) booked by customers with the member under the AITO logo. This financial protection applies to customers who are resident in the UK at the time of booking and to most overseas customers who have booked directly with the member. In doing so, the member must comply with UK government regulations. Members are required to submit details of their financial protection arrangements to AITO on a regular basis

All members do their utmost to ensure that all their brochures and other publications, print or electronic, clearly and accurately describe the holidays and services offered.

All members are committed to high standards of service and believe in regular and thorough training of employees.

Members continually seek to review and improve their holidays. They listen to their customers and always welcome suggestions for improving standards.

AITO endeavours to monitor quality standards regularly. All customers should receive a post-holiday questionnaire the results of which are scrutinised by the Association.

All Members acknowledge the importance of AITO’s Sustainable Tourism ethos, which recognises the social, economic and environmental responsibilities of tour operating.

All members endeavour to deal swiftly and fairly with any issues their customers may raise. In the unlikely event that a dispute between an AITO member and a customer cannot be settled amicably, AITO’s low-cost Independent Dispute Settlement Service may be called upon by either side to bring the matter to a speedy and acceptable conclusion.

Audley Travel is a member of the Association of Independent Tour Operators. To contact the Association, visit www.aito.com or call 020 8744 9280.

Please read the following conditions carefully. All holidays are sold by us subject to these conditions and the other general information in this booklet, our brochures and quotations.

Audley Travel Group Ltd (whose administrative offices are at New Mill, New Mill Lane, Witney, Oxon OX29 9SX) are members of the Association of Independent Tour Operators. Audley Travel Group Ltd (hereafter referred to as ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’) offers a number of products and the trading names we use are ‘Audley’, and ‘Audley Travel’. In these Terms & Conditions, ‘you’ and ‘your’ means all persons named on the booking, or any of them as applicable (including anyone who is added or substituted at a later date).

Your contract with us and all matters arising out of it are governed by English law. We both agree that any dispute, claim or other matter which arises out of or in connection with this contract or your holiday, will be dealt with by the AITO Arbitration Scheme - see clause 9 or the Courts of England and Wales only unless, in the case of Court proceedings, you live in Scotland or Northern Ireland. In this case, proceedings may be brought in the Courts of your home country. If proceedings are brought in Scotland or Northern Ireland, you may choose to have your contract governed by the law of Scotland/Northern Ireland as applicable. If you do not so choose, English law will apply.

(i) The procedure for making a booking is shown in your itinerary quotation and on our website. All bookings are subject to these terms and conditions and by asking us to confirm your booking, and by paying a deposit, the person who makes the booking is taken to have accepted these booking conditions on behalf of all persons named on the booking. Once we have received the applicable payment(s) due at the time of booking (see below), we will, subject to availability of the requested arrangements, send you your invoice. It is at the point when we issue this to you that a valid contract will come into existence between us. Please check your confirmation/invoice and all tickets/documents carefully as soon as you receive them and contact us we have contracted to provide will be held by them on our behalf. If you book your holiday through a travel agent who is not a member of ABTA, all payments must be made to us directly and not your travel agent.

2. If you change your holiday

If, after the contract between us has come into existence, you want to change your holiday we will do our best to pass your request to the relevant supplier, however we cannot guarantee that such changes can be made. Where a change can be made, we will charge for any additional costs incurred including any costs imposed or incurred by any of our suppliers, and including for example cancellation charges that may be incurred for sectors cancelled. You should note, for example, that a change of name on or other alteration to an airline ticket will usually incur a 100% cancellation charge and full rebooking fee.

3. If you cancel your holiday

If you have to cancel part of the booking or cancel the entire booking once it has been confirmed by us, written notification must be sent to us by recorded delivery post or by email. As proof of receipt by email of your notification to cancel you must receive and retain written acknowledgement from Audley Travel. Charges will be applied from the date the letter is received, or the email is acknowledged by Audley Travel, according to the scale below. The charges are applied as a percentage of the total holiday cost excluding any amendment charges and any amounts paid in addition to the deposit at the time of booking or before balance due date (see clauses 1(ii) and I(iv)) which are non-refundable in the event of cancellation.

The following cancellation charges apply if your final balance due date is 8 weeks prior to departure. Please note, different cancellation charges apply in relation to certain products – please see your quote for details.

Period before departure Cancellation date within which written Charge notification is received at Per Person our offices can reasonably expect to have a major effect on your holiday. Significant changes are likely to include the following changes when made before departure; a change of accommodation to that of a lower official classification or standard for the whole or a major part of the time you are away*, a change of accommodation area for the whole or a major part of the time you are away, a change of UK outward departure time or overall length of time you are away of twelve or more hours, or a change of UK departure airport to one which is more inconvenient for you (except as between Gatwick and Heathrow).

*Please note: A change affecting a stay in a hotel during a tour where the hotel itself is not the focus of the tour, does not constitute a significant change.

If we have to make a significant change or cancel, we will tell you as soon as possible. If there is time to do so before departure, we will offer you the choice of the following options:-

(a) (for significant changes) accepting the changed arrangements or

(b) purchasing an alternative holiday from us, of a similar standard to that originally booked if available. Please note: Due to the original and individual nature of our holidays it frequently may not be possible to offer you a comparable holiday to that originally booked.

(c) cancelling or accepting the cancellation in which case you will receive a full and quick refund of all monies you have paid to us.

You must advise us of your decision within 7 days of the date on which we notified you of the significant change or cancellation. Please note, the above options are not available where any change made is a minor one. A minor change is any change which, taking account of the information you have given us at the time of booking or which we can reasonably be expected to know as a tour operator, we could not reasonably expect to have a immediately if you think any details are incorrect. We regret we cannot accept any liability if we are not notified of any inaccuracies (for which we are responsible) in any document within ten days of our sending it out (five days for tickets).We will do our best to rectify any mistake notified to us outside these time limits but you must meet any costs involved in doing so.

(ii) The deposit is part payment of the holiday. The deposit required will be shown on the quotation page of your itinerary. In addition to the deposit, full or part payment of certain elements of your holiday (such as flights) may be required at the time booking or at some point between booking and balance due date. Also see clause I (iv). The deposit and all such additional payments are non-refundable except as set out in clause 4. The balance must be paid not later than the date specified on the invoice. This is normally no less than 8 weeks before the departure date. However, there are a few destinations or trip components that require payment no less than 90 days before the departure date which will be specified on your invoice and quotation. Please note if we do not receive all payments due (including any surcharge where applicable) in full and on time, we are entitled to assume that you wish to cancel your booking. In this case, we will be entitled to keep all amounts paid or due at that date. If we do not cancel straight away because you have promised to make payment, you must pay the cancellation charges shown in clause 3 depending on the date we reasonably treat your booking as cancelled.

(iii) Full payment is required at the time of booking for all bookings made after balance due date as above.

(iv) On occasions, we may be asked by suppliers to make payment to them earlier than normal. Such requests may, for example, be made in order to secure accommodation and other services during periods of peak demand. Whilst suppliers may have no contractual right to make such requests, failure to comply with them may result in the loss of confirmed arrangements. Where this situation arises, we reserve the right to ask you to make payment of the requested sum within a stipulated period and prior to balance due date. We will of course endeavour to avoid doing so if we can. Any such early payment will be non refundable except as set out in clause 4.

(v) If you are booking your holiday through one of our authorised travel agents the balance must be paid to the agent two weeks prior to the applicable balance due date as specified on the invoice and quotation. All payments made to one of our authorised travel agents for the arrangements

Up to balance due date Deposit only

Alterations or cancellations by you after commencement of travel and unused services We will do our best to implement any changes to your arrangements you request once they have commenced, but we cannot guarantee this will be possible. In the event of such amendments being made you will be liable for any cancellation charges that may be levied for the services originally booked, and for the cost of booking the revised arrangements and the arrangements themselves. As a basic principle, no refunds will be paid to clients who do not complete a tour. However where we ourselves are able to obtain a refund from hotels or principals for services not used, we will pass this on to you, less any reasonable administration charges.

If you have taken out holiday insurance you may, depending on the detail of your policy, be able to recover the cancellation charges, check your policy for details. Never travel without insurance, the unexpected can always happen. It is your responsibility to ensure you are adequately covered by insurance for all elements of your trip. Please read your policy and take it on holiday with you.

4. If we change your holiday

We start planning the holidays we offer many months in advance. Occasionally, we have to make changes to and correct errors in itineraries and other details both before and after bookings have been confirmed and cancel confirmed bookings. Whilst we always endeavour to avoid changes and cancellations, we must reserve the right to do so. However, we promise we will only cancel your confirmed booking after balance due date where you have failed to comply with any requirement of these booking conditions entitling us to cancel (such as paying on time) or where we are forced to do so as a result of ‘force majeure’ as defined in clause 5 below. We will not cancel after this date for any other reason.

Most changes are minor. Occasionally, we have to make a ‘significant change’. A significant change is a change made before departure which, taking account of the information you give us at the time of booking and which we can reasonably be expected to know as a tour operator, we

If we have to make a significant change or cancellation we will pay you the compensation set out below subject to the following exceptions. Compensation will not be payable and no liability beyond offering the above mentioned choices can be accepted where (1) we are forced to make a change or cancel as a result of unusual and unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control, the consequences of which we could not have avoided even with all due care or

(2) we have to cancel because the minimum number of bookings necessary for us to operate your holiday has not been reached - in this case we will notify you no less than 60 days before departure. Please note: all escorted group trips are based on group arrangements involving a given minimum number of passengers. No compensation will be payable and the above options will not be available if we cancel as a result of your failure to comply with any requirement of these booking conditions entitling us to cancel (such as paying on time).

Period of notification of Compensation change before scheduled per person departure date

In the unlikely event that we become unable to provide a significant proportion of the services you have booked after you depart, we will make alternative arrangements for you at no extra charge, or, if this is impossible, or you do not accept these alternative arrangements for a good reason, we will provide you with transport back to the point where your holiday arrangements with us commenced. If we are forced by ‘force majeure’ (see clause 5) to change or terminate your holiday after departure but before the scheduled end of your time away, we regret we will be unable to make any refunds (unless we obtain any refunds from our suppliers), pay you any compensation or meet any costs or expenses you incur as a result except as set out above.

Except as set out in these terms and conditions, we cannot accept liability or pay any compensation where the performance or prompt performance of our contractual obligations is prevented or affected, or you otherwise suffer any loss or damage (as more fully described in clause 7 (i) below) as a result of circumstances amounting to ‘force majeure’. In these terms and conditions ‘force majeure’ means any event or circumstances which we or the supplier of the services in question could not foresee or avoid even with all due care. Such events and circumstances may include, whether actual or threatened, war, insurrection, riots, strikes, civil action, decisions by governments or governing authority, technical or maintenance problems with transport, changes of schedules or operational decisions of air carriers, terrorist activity, industrial action, natural or nuclear activity, epidemics/pandemics, adverse weather conditions, fire and all similar events outside our control.

Once the price of your chosen holiday has been confirmed at the time of booking, we will only increase or decrease it in the following circumstances. Price increases or decreases after booking will be passed on by way of a surcharge or refund. A surcharge or refund (as applicable) will be payable, subject to the conditions set out in this clause, if transportation costs (e.g. fuel, scheduled airfares and any other airline surcharges which are part of the contract between airlines (and their agents) and the tour operator) or dues, taxes or fees payable for services such as landing taxes or embarkation or disembarkation fees at ports or airports change.

Even in the above cases, only if the amount of the increase in our costs exceeds 2% of the total cost of your holiday (excluding any amendment charges), will we levy a surcharge. If any surcharge is greater than 10% of the cost of your holiday (excluding any amendment charges), you will be entitled to cancel your booking and receive a full refund of all monies you have paid to us (except for any amendment charges) or alternatively purchase another holiday from us as referred to in clause 4 ‘If we change your holiday’. Please note that travel arrangements are not always purchased in local currency and some apparent changes have no impact on the price of your travel due to contractual and other protection in place.

A refund will only be payable if the decrease in our costs exceeds 2% as set out above. Where a refund is due, we will pay you the full amount of the decrease in our costs.

You have 14 days from the issue date printed on the surcharge invoice to tell us if you want to cancel or purchase another holiday where applicable. If you do not tell us that you wish to do so within this period of time, we are entitled to assume that you will pay the surcharge. Any surcharge must be paid with the balance of the cost of the holiday or within 14 days of the issue date printed on the surcharge invoice, whichever is the later.

We reserve the right to make changes to and correct errors in quoted prices at any time before your holiday is confirmed. We will advise you of any error of which we are aware and of the then applicable price at the time of booking.

(i) We promise to make sure that all parts of the holiday we have agreed to arrange, perform or provide as part of our contract with you are arranged, performed or provided with reasonable skill and care. This means that, subject to these booking conditions, we will accept responsibility if, for example, you suffer death or personal injury or your contracted holiday arrangements are not provided as promised or prove deficient as a result of the failure of ourselves, our employees, agents or suppliers to use reasonable skill and care in making, performing or providing, as applicable, your contracted holiday arrangements. Please note, it is your responsibility to show that reasonable skill and care has not been used if you wish to make a claim against us. In addition, we will only be responsible for what our employees, agents and suppliers do or do not do if they were at the time acting within the course of their employment (for employees) or carrying out work we had asked them to do (for agents and suppliers). We will not be responsible for any injury, illness, death, loss (including loss of enjoyment), damage, expense, cost or other sum or claim of any description whatsoever which results from any of the following:-

(a) the fault of the person(s) affected or any member(s) of their party or

(b) the fault of a third party not connected with the provision of your holiday which we could not have predicted or avoided or

(d) the fault of anyone who is not carrying out work for us (generally or in particular) at the time.

In addition, we will not be responsible where you do not enjoy your holiday or suffer any problems because of a reason you did not tell us about when you booked your holiday or where any problems you suffer did not result from any breach of our contract or other fault of ourselves or, where we were responsible for them, our suppliers or agents or where any losses, expenses, costs or other sum you have suffered relate to any business.

Please note: we cannot accept responsibility for any services which do not form part of our contract. This includes, for example, any additional services or facilities which your hotel or any other supplier agrees to provide for you where the services or facilities are not advertised in our brochure and we have not agreed to arrange them as part of our contract and any excursion you purchase during your holiday.

(ii) The promises we make to you about the services we have agreed to provide or arrange as part of our contract - and the laws and regulations of the country in which your claim or complaint occurred - will be used as the basis for deciding whether the services in question had been properly provided. If the particular services which gave rise to the claim or complaint complied with local laws and regulations applicable to those services at the time, the services will be treated as having been properly provided. This will be the case even if the services did not comply with the laws and regulations of the UK which would have applied had those services been provided in the UK. The exception to this is where the claim or complaint concerns the absence of a safety feature which might lead a reasonable holiday maker to refuse to take the holiday in question.

(iii) We limit the maximum amount we may have to pay you for any and all claims or parts of claims which do not involve personal injury, illness or death. Except where loss of and/or damage to luggage or personal possessions is concerned or a lower limitation of liability applies to your claim, the maximum amount we will have to pay you for such non personal injury claims if we are found liable to you on any basis is twice the price (excluding any amendment charges) paid by or on behalf of the person(s) affected in total. This maximum amount will only be payable where everything has gone wrong and you have not received any benefit at all from your holiday.

Where we are found liable for loss of and/or damage to any luggage or personal possessions (including money), the maximum amount we will have to pay you is £150 per person affected as you are assumed to have taken out adequate insurance at the time of booking. Please also see clause 7(iv) below.

(iv) Where any claim or part of a claim concerns or is based on any travel arrangements (including the process of getting on and/or off the transport concerned) provided by any air, sea, rail or road carrier or any stay in a hotel, the maximum amount of compensation we will have to pay you will be limited. The most we will have to pay you for that claim or that part of a claim if we are found liable to you on any basis is the most the carrier or hotel keeper concerned would have to pay under the international convention or regulation which applies to the travel arrangements or hotel stay in question (for example, the Warsaw Convention as amended for international travel by air and/or for airlines with an operating licence granted by an EU country, the EU Regulation on Air Carrier Liability for national and international travel by air, the Athens Convention for international travel by sea and COTIF, the Convention on International Travel by Rail). Please note: Where a carrier or hotel would not be obliged to make any payment to you under the applicable International Convention or Regulation in respect of a claim or part of a claim, we similarly are not obliged to make a payment to you for that claim or part of the claim. When making any payment, we are entitled to deduct any money which you have received or are entitled to receive from the transport provider or hotelier for the complaint or claim in question.

(v) You must provide ourselves and our insurers with all assistance we may reasonably require. You must also tell us and the supplier concerned about your claim or complaint as set out in clause 9 below.

The flight details shown in your itinerary quotation are for guidance only and are subject to change. Final details will be confirmed on your travel documentation, sent approximately 14 days prior to departure. The times shown on all tickets are local times and check in for both outward and return flights is at least 3 hours prior to the departure times on the travel documents. It is possible that flight times may be changed even after tickets have been dispatched - we will contact you as soon as possible if this occurs.

In accordance with EU Directive (EC) No 2111/2005 Article 9, we are required to bring to your attention the existence of a “Community list” which contains details of air carriers who are subject to an operating ban within the EU. The Community list is available for inspection at http://europa.eu.int/comm/transport/air/safety/ flywell_en.htm. In accordance with EU Regulations we are required to advise you of the actual carrier(s) (or, if the actual carrier(s) is not known, the likely carrier(s)) that will operate your flight(s) at the time of booking. Where we are only able to inform you of the likely carrier(s) at the time of booking, we shall inform you of the identity of the actual carrier(s) as soon as we become aware of this. Any change to the operating carrier(s) after your booking has been confirmed will be notified to you as soon as possible. If the carrier with whom you have a confirmed reservation becomes subject to an operating ban as above as a result of which we/ the carrier are unable to offer you a suitable alternative the provisions of clause 4 will apply. Any change in the identity of the carrier, flight timings, and/or aircraft type (if advised) will not entitle you to cancel or change to other arrangements without paying our normal charges except where specified in these conditions.

We can accept no responsibility if you arrive late for the check in and miss your flight as a result nor can we accept responsibility for any loss by you of your holiday/flight travel tickets, vouchers or coupons.

Air travel is subject to operational decisions of carriers and airports which may result in delays and diversions. Please note that minor carriers sometimes change the departure time of short-haul or domestic flights at short notice, and in some instances, schedules shown in the computers of intercontinental carriers differ from those actually flown by smaller local carriers. We advise you that it is your responsibility to be meticulous in locally reconfirming directly with the carrier operating the flight. We accept no liability for the consequences of flights missed owing to the passenger’s failure to reconfirm.

Clients flying in economy class to long-haul destinations should be aware that flights are often full and you may not be able to get seats together. We also recommend that you check in early for a long flight, and in any case not less than 3 hours before the scheduled departure time.

If your flight is cancelled or delayed, your flight ticket is downgraded or boarding is denied by your airline in circumstances which would entitle you to claim compensation or any other payment from the airline under EC Regulation No 261/2004 - the Denied Boarding Regulations 2004, you must pursue the airline for the compensation or other payment due to you. All sums you receive or are entitled to receive from the airline concerned by virtue of these Regulations represent the full amount of your entitlement to compensation or any other payment arising from such cancellation, delay, downgrading or denied boarding. This includes any disappointment, distress, inconvenience or effect on any other arrangements. The fact a delay may entitle you to cancel your flight does not automatically entitle you to cancel any other arrangements even where those arrangements have been made in conjunction with your flight. We have no liability to make any payment to you in relation to the Denied Boarding Regulations or in respect of any flight cancellation or delay, downgrading of any flight ticket or denial of any boarding as the full amount of your entitlement to any compensation or other payment (as dealt with above) is covered by the airline's obligations under the Denied Boarding Regulations. If your airline does not comply with these rules, you should complain to the Air Transport Users’ Council on 020 7240 6061 www.auc.org.uk

We cannot accept liability for any delay unless it has a material effect on your holiday arrangements. See clause 4.

You undertake to behave with propriety and in such a manner as in no way causes or is likely to cause distress, danger or annoyance to other clients and/or any third party or damage to property. If, in the view of ourselves, our employees, agents or suppliers, you are in breach of this clause, we reserve the right to terminate your contract and neither we nor the providers of any of the services in question will have any further contractual obligations to you either in respect of covering any expenses, paying any compensation or refunds, or arranging for your return home.

When you book with us, you accept responsibility for any damage or loss caused by you. Full payment for any such damage or loss (reasonably estimated if not precisely known) must be paid direct at the time to the accommodation owner or manager or other supplier. If the actual cost of the loss or damage exceeds the amount paid where estimated, you must pay the difference once known. If the actual cost is less than the amount paid, the difference will be refunded. If you fail to do so, you will be responsible for meeting any claims subsequently made against us (together with our own and the other party’s full legal costs) as a result of your actions.

You must ensure that all your travel documents, full passports, visas, vaccination certificates, currency and travellers cheques are in order and valid for travel. All costs incurred in obtaining such documentation must be paid by you. We regret we cannot accept any liability if you are refused entry onto any transport or into any country due to failure on your part to carry correct documentation. We are able to give general advice on these matters for British citizens holding a British passport. However, non-British citizens and non-British passport holders should check with their embassy or consulate vis-a-vis current requirements. See also our General Information section.

If failure to have any necessary travel or other documents results in fines, surcharges or other financial penalty being imposed on us, you will be responsible for reimbursing us accordingly.

The name on your airline tickets must be the name that appears on your full passport.

Please note that if you believe that we have stated orally that a particular facility or service should be available, but is not in the brochure or in writing from us, please make reference to it on the booking form so that we may confirm it to you when accepting your booking.

Should you have any complaints about any aspect of your holiday arrangements, you must inform our local representative or tour leader immediately and the supplier of the arrangements concerned. Problems can most easily be dealt with on the spot. Please note, if you do not report a problem or complaint which, if it had been reported at the time it occurred could have been resolved there and then we cannot accept any liability in respect of that problem or complaint. It is sensible to expect a client travelling in the developing world to be reasonably resourceful if things go wrong. If you experience any difficulties, contact us in the UK on our 24 hour emergency telephone service. The number will be found on your pre- departure information and with your tickets. In the unlikely event that an acceptable solution cannot be found, you should then write to us within 28 days of your return with full details of your complaint. If you fail to follow this complaints procedure, your right to claim the compensation you may otherwise have been entitled to may be affected or even lost as a result.

If we cannot reach an amicable solution to any dispute you do have the right to refer the dispute to the Association of Independent Tour Operators which operates an Independent Dispute Service (details on request) for resolution of the dispute by a mediator provided the claim does not involve personal accident, injury or illness.

We have taken every care in ensuring that the information in the brochure and given in quotations/itineraries is correct at the time of publication. However we are sure you will appreciate that subsequently minor alterations may arise. We reserve the right to change any of the prices, services or other particulars contained in this brochure or any quotation at any time before we enter into a contract with you. If there is any change we will notify you before we enter into such contract. Where we state that additional information, a fact sheet or a dossier is available on a particular itinerary or programme, this information should be regarded as a term of the contract.

The hotel classifications given on our website, in our brochures, quotations and dossiers and fact sheets are for guidance only. They are not based on any national or international classification system, they are the opinions of our staff or agents and are quite subjective. The photographs that appear in the accommodation section of your quotation are indicative only and may not be of the exact room you have been quoted for.

If you have any special request, you must advise us in writing at the time of booking. Although we will endeavour to pass any reasonable requests on to the relevant supplier, we regret we cannot guarantee any request will be met.

For your own protection, you should obtain confirmation in writing from us that your request will be complied with (where it is possible for us to give this) if your request is important to you. Confirmation that a special request has been noted or passed on to the supplier or the inclusion of the special request on your confirmation invoice or any other documentation is not a guarantee that the request will be met by the relevant supplier. All special requests are subject to availability.

We regret we cannot accept any conditional bookings, i.e. any booking which is specified to be conditional on the fulfilment of a particular request. All such bookings will be treated as ‘standard’ bookings subject to the above provisions on special requests.

If you have any medical problem or disability which may affect your holiday, please tell us before you confirm your booking so that we can advise as to the suitability of the chosen arrangements. In any event, you must give us full details in writing at the time of booking. You must also promptly advise us if any medical condition or disability which may affect your holiday develops after your booking has been confirmed. If we reasonably feel unable to properly accommodate the particular needs of the person concerned, we must reserve the right to decline their reservation or, if full details are not given at the time of booking, cancel when we become aware of these details.

We hold an Air Travel Organiser's Licence issued by the Civil Aviation Authority (ATOL number 4817). When you buy an ATOL protected flight-inclusive holiday* from us, you will receive an ATOL Certificate. This lists the flight, accommodation, car hire and/or other services that are financially protected, where you can get information on what this means for you, and who to contact if things go wrong. We, or the suppliers identified on your ATOL Certificate, will provide you with the services listed on the ATOL Certificate (or a suitable alternative). In some cases, where neither we nor the supplier are able to do so for reasons of insolvency, an alternative ATOL holder may provide you with services you have bought or a suitable alternative (at no extra cost to you). You agree to accept that in those circumstances the alternative ATOL holder will perform those obligations and you agree to pay any money outstanding to be paid by you under your contract to that alternative ATOL holder. However, you also agree that in some cases it will not be possible to appoint an alternative ATOL holder, in which case you will be entitled to make a claim under the ATOL scheme (or your credit card issuer where applicable). If we, or the suppliers identified on your ATOL certificate, are unable to provide the services listed (or a suitable alternative, through an alternative ATOL holder or otherwise) for reasons of insolvency, the Trustees of the Air Travel Trust may make a payment to (or confer a benefit on) you under the ATOL scheme. You agree that in return for such a payment or benefit you assign absolutely to those Trustees any claims which you have or may have arising out of or relating to the non-provision of the services, including any claim against us, the travel agent (or your credit card issuer where applicable).You also agree that any such claims may be re- assigned to another body, if that other body has paid sums you have claimed under the ATOL scheme.

*The air inclusive holidays and flights we arrange are ATOL protected providing they are made available in the UK. For further information, visit the ATOL website at www.atol.org.uk

Not all holiday or travel services offered and sold by us will be protected by the ATOL scheme.

The Association of Bonded Travel Organisers Trust Limited (ABTOT) provides financial protection under the Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours Regulations 1992 for Audley Travel (ABTOT Membership number 5297) and in the event of their insolvency, protection is provided for the following:

1. non-flight packages commencing in and returning to the UK;

2. non-flight packages commencing and returning to a country other than the UK; and

3. flight inclusive packages that commence outside of the UK, which are sold to customers outside of the UK.

1, 2 and 3 provides for a refund in the event you have not yet travelled. 1 and 3 provides for repatriation. Please note that bookings made outside the UK are only protected by ABTOT when purchased directly with Audley Travel.

Please note that we do not provide or arrange excursions other than those listed in your itinerary and forming part of the arrangements booked and paid for in the UK. Our local representatives or guides may put you in touch with local organisers of excursions if you request but we can have no liability for such excursions, as your contract for such excursions will be with a local company providing the services and not with us.

Please note, the information and prices shown on our website, in our brochures and/or quotations may have changed by the time you come to book your holiday. Whilst every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the website, brochures, quotations and prices at the time of printing or when they are given to you, regrettably errors do occasionally occur. You must therefore ensure you check all details of your chosen holiday (including the price) with us at the time of booking.

All honeymoon bookings and use of Audley's Honeymoon Gift Service are subject to our Terms & Conditions. It is important to note that in the unfortunate event of the cancellation of your booking you will be responsible for all cancellation charges as detailed in our Terms & Conditions. Audley also reserve the right to charge a £150 administration fee to cover refunding all monies to your guests. These refunds will only be made once all cancellation charges have been paid. As the client, you will take on the responsibility for the full payment of the booking as the amount of your guest contributions cannot be guaranteed.

Audley Travel Group Limited. Registered Address: New Mill, New Mill Lane, Witney, Oxfordshire OX29 9SX. Registered in England with Company Reg. No. 3190720. VAT Reg. No.125454721. September 2014.