When you receive your confirmation invoice from Travel Editions (a trading name of Travel Editions Group Ltd) a contract is made between you and ourselves. Both parties then have commitments towards each other. Our commitment to you is to provide you with the holiday you have booked and your commitment is to pay for that holiday. These commitments are clearly set out below and are also shown either within the relevant holiday brochure, or on the reverse of your booking form. From time to time people wish to change or withdraw from contracts. There are also times when it may be necessary for us to alter the price of the holiday after we have accepted the booking. Our policy in such circumstances is clearly stated below. Please read these conditions carefully. Your signature on the booking form means that you have accepted the terms of this code under which the holiday contract is made. You are also deemed to have signed on behalf of and with the consent of all persons for whom the booking is completed. Should bookings be made through a Travel Agent with whom we have any agreement or by any means other than directly with ourselves, all monies paid are held by them on our behalf. When you contact us to make a booking, we act as agents for the relevant carrier which will be disclosed on your documentation. We reserve the right to substitute the carrier if necessary.



A deposit and insurance premium (if required), must be paid at the time of booking to secure your place. This deposit is your only commitment to us until the final payment is due at the date indicated on your confirmation/invoice. You MUST pay for your holiday at least eight weeks before departure unless stipulated on your confirmation/invoice. If you do not do so, we reserve the right to treat your booking as cancelled, in which case you are liable to cancellation charges up to 100% of the final invoice in accordance with section 4 below. PLEASE NOTE:- NO REMINDER IS SENT TO YOU, AND BALANCES ARE NOT RECEIPTED UNLESS REQUESTED. If you book your holiday within eight weeks of departure, full payment is required at the time of booking.



If you change your Booking

If, after we have accepted your booking, you wish to change any details of that booking, we will make every effort to satisfy your requirements, although this cannot be guaranteed. When a request can be met, an amendment fee of £10.00 per person will be charged (maximum £40.00 per booking form per amendment) and a revised invoice will then be issued. If you change your holiday booking later than the ‘balance due’ date, you will incur cancellation charges in accordance with section 4 below. Alterations to sea/air/train travel once tickets have been issued may be subject to additional charges. NOTE: Clients with physical disabilities, wheelchairs, handicaps or illnesses requiring any form of special attention must advise the company in writing at the time of requesting reservations. We reserve the right to refuse carriage to any client at any time who fails to inform us of such conditions, or who is considered a liability to our company or fellow travellers.



If you cancel your Holiday

Cancellations must be notified in writing and sent to us by recorded or registered post and are effective only from the date we receive written notification. To compensate us for the expense of processing your booking, withdrawal from sale at the time of booking and the risk that we may not be able to re-sell the holiday we charge cancellation fees in accordance with the following scale.





 You may make a claim on your holiday insurance if your reason for cancellation falls within the terms of the insurance policy.

If you have a complaint

In the unlikely event that you have a complaint please tell our staff or representative immediately so that remedial action can be taken as soon as possible. If the matter cannot be resolved on the spot, you must put your complaint in writing to us so that we receive it within 28 days of the end of your holiday. We do not accept liability in respect of any claim or complaint received after this period. All holidays are offered and provided by us as described in the relevant brochure, though it is impossible to include all details at that time. Therefore, extra verification or clarification of ANY details in connection with the holiday must be requested by the client and satisfied before confirming the holiday. We cannot be held liable if you have not properly read the brochure, information or conditions and subsequently on arrival at your destination decide not to accept the accommodation booked for personal reasons/views/interpretations, or choose to complain about certain/all aspects of the holiday for whatever reason.

OUR COMMITMENT TO YOU

On receipt of your booking, we will check that we can accommodate you and return to you a confirmation/invoice showing the basic details of the holiday booked and the amount of money outstanding. Your reservation is accepted on the terms of our booking conditions and is valid from the date which appears on the confirmation/invoice. (A copy of these booking conditions is printed for your information on the reverse of your confirmation/invoice). If we are unable to accommodate your booking request, we will endeavour to offer you an alternative holiday. If you are unable to accept any alternatives offered at this time, a full refund of all monies paid including deposit and insurance will be made.



The Price of your Holiday

The price of your holiday is fully guaranteed and will not be subject to any surcharges.

If we Change your Booking

The arrangements in this brochure are made many months in advance. Whilst Travel Editions at all times try to satisfy your requirements it is sometimes necessary to make alterations to your holiday or to effect cancellation due to a variety of reasons. In these circumstances we reserve the right at our discretion to make the necessary changes or cancellations. If a material alteration or cancellation has to be made to your holiday we will offer you the same holiday on different dates, or an alternative holiday of the same standard or a full refund of all money paid to us excluding any amounts claimable under the Delay Insurance Cover. However, if it is necessary to make a material alteration (of significant inconvenience to you) to a holiday, or any other travel arrangements, after the date when payment of the balance of the price becomes due (other than for reasons such as hostilities, political unrest or other circumstances amounting to force majeure) compensation amounting to £10.00 per person will either credited against your holiday costs, or if you cancel, you will receive a credit note for £10.00 per person to be used on a future Travel Editions holiday taken within 12 months of the date of the credit note. If we have to notify you of a material alteration within 14 days of the departure date (other than for reasons such as hostilities, political unrest or other circumstances amounting to force majeure) you will receive compensation amounting to £30.00 per person.

 

 We do not intend to cancel a holiday, or any other travel arrangements, after the date when payment of the balance of the price becomes due, unless it is necessary to do so as a result of hostilities, political unrest or other circumstances amounting to force majeure or unless you default in payment of such balance. However, if it is necessary to cancel your holiday after the balance of your holiday becomes due, (for reasons other than hostilities, political unrest or force majeure) such as overbooking by an hotel or an airline, a full refund as well as compensation of £15.00 per person will be paid. Travel Editions further reserve the right to curtail your holiday after the date of departure where forced to do so by circumstances amounting to force majeure. In this extremely unlikely situation Travel Editions shall not be responsible for any refunds, compensation, losses or expenses incurred by you. In accordance with EU Regulation 2111/2005 we are required to advise you of the actual carrier operating your flight/connecting flight/transfer. We do this by listing carriers to be used or likely to be used as follows: British Airways, Ryanair, Easyjet, Estonian Air, Virgin Atlantic, Lithuanian Airlines, Air Baltic, Air Berlin, Aer Lingus, First Choice and Thomson Fly.

 

 Any changes to the actual airline after you have received your tickets will be notified to you as soon as possible and in all cases at check-in or at the boarding gate. Such a change is deemed to be a minor change. Other examples of minor changes include alteration of your outward/return flights by less than 12 hours, changes to aircraft type, change of airport between Heathrow, Gatwick, Luton or Stansted, change of accommodation to another of the same standard. PLEASE NOTE FLIGHT TIMINGS ARE GIVEN FOR GUIDANCE ONLY AND MAY ALTER.



If we Cancel your Holiday

We reserve the right in any circumstances to cancel your holiday. PLEASE NOTE:- EACH TOUR IS SUBJECT TO A MINIMUM NUMBER OF PASSENGERS IN ORDER FOR IT TO OPERATE. ANY NON- REFUNDABLE ACCOMMODATION, OR TRAVEL BOOKED BY YOURSELVES BEFORE THE BALANCE DUE DATE, IS TAKEN AT YOUR OWN RISK AND WILL NOT BE COMPENSATED BY TRAVEL EDITIONS IN THE EVENT OF THE TOUR HAVING TO BE CANCELLED. Full details are available on request. In the unlikely event of this being necessary we will offer you an alternative available holiday or a full refund of all monies paid. If cancellation is less than eight weeks prior to departure we will also pay compensation in accordance with paragraph 8.



Any written complaint will be acknowledged as soon as it is received. Normally a complaint is settled amicably in a short time. Disputes arising out of, or in connection with this contract which cannot be amicably settled may (if the customer so wishes) be referred to arbitration under a special Scheme. The arbitration scheme is arranged by ABTA and administered independently by IDRS, part of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. It provides for a simple and inexpensive method of arbitration on documents alone with restricted liability on you in respect of costs. Full details will be provided on request or can be obtained from the ABTA website.

 

 The Scheme does not apply to claims for an amount greater than £5,000 per person. There is also a limit of £25,000 per booking form. Neither does it apply to claims which are solely in respect of physical injury or illness or their consequences. The Scheme can however deal with compensation claims which include an element of minor injury or illness subject to a limit of £1,000 on the amount the arbitrator can award per person in respect of this element. The application for arbitration and Statement of Claim must be received by IDRS within nine months of the date of return from the holiday. Outside this time limit arbitration under the Scheme may still be available if the company agrees, but the ABTA Code does not require such agreement.

 

 For injury and illness claims, you may like to use the ABTA / Chartered Institute of Arbitrators Mediation Procedure. This is a voluntary scheme and requires us to agree for mediation to go ahead. The aim is to help you resolve your dispute in a quick and cost effective way. Details on request or from www.abta.com.”



Our Responsibility to You

If the contract we have with you is not performed or is improperly performed by us or our suppliers we will pay you appropriate compensation if this has affected the enjoyment of your travel arrangements. However we will not be liable where any failure in the performance of the contract is due to: you; or a third party unconnected with the provision of the travel arrangements and where the failure is unforeseeable or unavoidable; or unusual and unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control, the consequences of which could not have been avoided even if all due care had been exercised; or an event which we or our suppliers, even with all due care, could not foresee or forestall. Our liability, except in cases involving death, injury or illness, shall be limited to a maximum of £5000 per booking form. Our liability will also be limited in accordance with and/or in an identical manner to

(a) The contractual terms of the companies that provide the transportation for your travel arrangements. These terms are incorporated into this contract; and

(b) Any relevant international convention, for example the Montreal Convention in respect of travel by air, the Athens Convention in respect of travel by sea, the Berne Convention in respect of travel by rail and the Paris Convention in respect of the provision of accommodation, which limit the amount of compensation that you can claim for death, injury, delay to passengers and loss, damage and delay to luggage. We are to be regarded as having all benefit of any limitation of compensation contained in these or any conventions.

You can ask for copies of the transport companies’ contractual terms, or the international conventions, from our offices: 3 Young’s Buildings, London, EC1V 9DB Telephone: 020 7251 0045.

Under EU law (Regulation 261/2004) you have rights in some circumstances to refunds and/or compensation from your airline in cases of denied boarding, cancellation or delay to flights. Full details of these rights will be publicised at EU airports and will also be available from airlines. However reimbursement in such cases will not automatically entitle you to a refund of your holiday cost from us. Your right to a refund and/or compensation from us is set out in clause 6. If any payments to you are due from us, any payment made to you by the airline will be deducted from this amount. If your airline does not comply with these rules you should complain to the Air Transport Users’ Council on 020 7240 6061 www.auc.org.uk



When you buy an ATOL protected flight or flight inclusive holiday from us you will receive an ATOL Certificate. This lists what is financially protected, where you can get information on what this means for you and who to contact if things go wrong. We, or the suppliers identified on your ATOL Certificate, will provide you with the services listed on the ATOL Certificate (or a suitable alternative). In some cases, where neither we nor the supplier are able to do so for reasons of insolvency, an alternative ATOL holder may provide you with the services you have bought or a suitable alternative (at no extra cost to you). You agree to accept that in those circumstances the alternative ATOL holder will perform those obligations and you agree to pay any money outstanding to be paid by you under your contract to that alternative ATOL holder. However, you also agree that in some cases it will not be possible to appoint an alternative ATOL holder, in which case you will be entitled to make a claim under the ATOL scheme (or your credit card issuer where applicable).

If we, or the suppliers identified on your ATOL certificate, are unable to provide the services listed (or a suitable alternative, through an alternative ATOL holder or otherwise) for reasons of insolvency, the Trustees of the Air Travel Trust may make a payment to (or confer a benefit on) you under the ATOL scheme. You agree that in return for such a payment or benefit you assign absolutely to those Trustees any claims which you have or may have arising out of or relating to the non-provision of the services, including any claim against us, the travel agent (or your credit card issuer where applicable). You also agree that any such claims may be re-assigned to another body, if that other body has paid sums you have claimed under the ATOL scheme.

We are a member of ABTA, membership number V3120. We are obliged to maintain a high standard of service to you by ABTA’s Code of Conduct. We can also offer you an arbitration scheme for the resolution of disputes arising out of, or in connection with this contract. Further information on the Code and arbitration can be found at http://www.abta.com



If the contract we have with you is not performed or is improperly performed as a result of failures attributable to a third party unconnected with the provision of the services, or as a result of failures due to unusual and unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control, the consequences of which could not have been avoided even if all due care had been exercised, or an event which we or our suppliers, even with all due care, could not foresee or forestall, and you suffer an injury or other material loss, we will offer you such prompt assistance as is reasonable in the circumstances.



Your contract is made under these booking conditions and this Fair Trading Code and is subject to English Law and jurisdiction and it is agreed between both parties that each will submit to the jurisdiction of the English Courts.