Your reservation is made with Prestige Holidays, a company wholly independent of Telegraph Media Group Limited.

As holiday pricing is so dynamic these days with airlines changing prices constantly we have developed this website to give you the best possible price at the time you are searching for your holiday. Our booking process is straight forward and if in any doubt our experienced team are here to help.

When you get your quote it will include airline and airport taxes as well as flights (if you have selected a holiday with flights, of course) transfers to your hotel, accommodation costs and the support of our local team during your stay.

You can either create your own booking online, or search for a holiday and then call our team on 01425 480 400 or you can send our enquiry form directly from this site.

If you opt to create your own booking online, rest assured that we will review the booking to see if we can add any addition offers (new ones come in constantly) that will reduce the cost of your holiday and refund the difference to you.

Our pricing does not include travel insurance, a vital part of any holiday. We strongly recommend that all passengers should take out adequate insurance.

You can complete your form of indemnity online and email it to us by clicking here or your can log in to My Account and select and "view" your booking and then "update insurance".

Before booking with Prestige Holidays (or with any tour operator) you should read the Booking Conditions and Important information – you will find the link at the bottom of each page of this website.

We are thrilled that many of our clients travel with us frequently. In recognition of this we are delighted to offer our regular clients a reduction of £100 per booking for the second holiday booked of seven nights or more including flights.

To qualify for this saving the simple terms and conditions that apply are as follows :-
• The minimum stay is 7 nights and the booking must be for a minimum of 2 guests.
• The reward is for holidays that include return flights and is subject to availability.
• The reward is a reduction of £100 on the whole booking and can only be treated as such. It has no cash value.
• Only one discount can be applied per booking.
• We reserve the right to withdraw this reward at a time of our choosing.

It’s just another small way we can demonstrate that we appreciate the loyalty many of our clients show us.

In order to provide you with the best possible service, we ask guests with a disability or who are less mobile to complete a checklist. This enables us to ensure that your travel arrangements are a success. This form can be downloaded by clicking here, please complete this form and send it back to us.

The only cookies we use on this website are to store your username and password when you log in to "My Account". This information is not used for any other purpose than to give you access to your account and to enable you to log in at a later stage without re-registering. By logging in you accept this single cookie. You can always clear your web history to remove this cookie.

The material on this web site rests with Atkins Travel Ltd, trading as Prestige Holidays, and its suppliers. Your access to it does not imply a licence to reproduce and/or distribute this information. This means that you cannot reproduce or distribute this information unless authorised in writing to do so by Prestige Holidays.

Telephone calls may be recorded for training and monitoring purposes.