"I think the Prime Minister was very contrite today, he apologised and he took full responsibility," he told Times Radio.

7. Jacob Rees-Mogg, Leader of the House of Commons (Jan 12, 5.40pm)

"I think the Prime Minister has got things right again and again and again," he said.

"But like us all, he accepts that during a two-and-a-half-year period, there will be things that with hindsight would have been done differently."

Asked if the Prime Minister will resign if Sue Gray's report found wrongdoing, Mr Eustice said: "I don't think we should get ahead of ourselves here. We should take this a step at a time."

9. Steve Barclay, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Jan 12, 8.32pm)

"The PM did the right thing by apologising in Parliament. We should now let the investigation complete its work and I support the PM’s request for patience so that Sue Gray is able to do so," he said.

"I agree with Nadine. I was at PMQs today. I saw how sincere the PM was and I know how he has worked tirelessly to tackle coronavirus, striving to protect lives and livelihoods," she wrote.

"Worth watching important apology from PM today. Let's allow Sue Gray to do her job while we get on with ours - rolling out the vaccine, keeping the economy open and driving jobs recovery," he wrote.

"Got Brexit done. World-beating vaccine roll-out. 400,000 more jobs than pre-Covid. Keeping schools open & children learning. Building back better for all. All thanks to the leadership of Boris Johnson," she wrote.

"The Prime Minister was right to apologise. We now need to let Sue Gray complete her investigation," he wrote.

Mr Kwarteng backed Mr Johnson in a WhatsApp group of MPs, saying he had been "absolutely right to apologise" and a focus was needed on "top priorities" such as Brexit dividends and levelling-up.

Ms Trevelyan described the Prime Minister's apology as "needed and heard" but insisted Boris Johnson had been "relentless in [his] determination to protect us" against Covid.

Ben Wallace confirmed his support for the Prime Minister amid fresh revelations about Downing Street parties.

After an initial supportive tweet, Ms Patel offered fulsome support to Mr Johnson in an interview with Sky News the following day.

"I have publicly supported the prime minister and actually you're speaking to the home secretary who spends all my time day in, day out supporting the prime minister, his agenda of delivering on the people's priorities and the work that we do."

"I confess to voting against John Major and Theresa May in votes of no confidence - so I am no loyalist," Mr Fabricant, a veteran Tory MP, tweeted.

"But Boris delivered Brexit, the best vaccination programme in Europe and first in the world, and in England is likely soon to leave Covid behind. He delivers and has my full support."

Mr Anderson tweeted his agreement with Brandon Lewis that Mr Johnson "will win the next election".

Ms Donelan, the universities minister, wrote: "PM was right to personally apologise today - so many made sacrifices sometimes heart wrenching ones so understandably people are angry and hurting which is why as the Prime Minister said we need to let the inquiry take place."

26. James Cleverly, MP for Braintree and former Tory chairman (Jan 12, 8.05pm)

"As I said earlier today to the press in Brussels, the PM was absolutely right to make an apology today and explain what happened," Mr Cleverly said. "It is now right to await Sue Gray’s findings."

Mr Adams said Nadine Dorries's comments were "spot on".

"In the short time he has been PM, Boris Johnson has delivered on the people’s vote on Brexit, created a new electoral coalition and steered the country through Covid so we are likely to be the first major economy to emerge from the pandemic," Mr Malthouse tweeted.

"Boris Johnson continues to have my support as Prime Minister and leader of the Conservative Party. He also maintains the support of the parliamentary party, and of the majority of my constituents... they see this as an exciting period for Britain."

Mr Philp said Nadine Dorries was "right" in saying the Prime Minister had been correct to apologise.

"The PM was right to apologise today for not stopping the event in the garden of No 10," he said.

Mr Mackinlay, a prominent Brexit supporter, told Politics Live: "Let's not forget there are other things in this country we need to be talking about, it's levelling up, it's energy costs.

"It's the potential constitutional crisis Northern Ireland, it's the gathering of Russian troops on the Ukraine border."

On Jan 19 Mr Clarke-Smith, a Red Wall MP,praised Boris Johnson's "fantastic performance" at Prime Minister's Questions. "Great to see the lifting of Plan B restrictions, vindicating the government’s approach and making us the stand out nation in Europe for combating Covid and restoring our day-to-day freedoms," he wrote.