Fabio Cannavaro is certain: it is time for him to manage in Europe, where the “real football” is. It does not matter if it is in Italy, Spain, England or elsewhere. It does not even matter if it is in a top league or a second division. What is important to the 48 year-old is that it is the right job.

“I think I am ready,” he says. “I have had very good jobs in Asia but the best clubs, the best managers are in Europe and so if I want to be one of the best I have to compete with them.”

Cannavaro's qualities as a player are beyond dispute: the last defender to win the Ballon D’Or, the man who led Italy to their 2006 World Cup win, not to mention a brace of league titles with Real Madrid and a Uefa Cup with Parma. But what of Cannavaro the manager? To an English audience, at least, that is - to borrow a phrase - a known unknown.

This, then, is what Cannavaro wants to address. And so, in a wide-ranging interview with Telegraph Sport, he opens up on his recent talks with Everton and Watford, why people are wrong to dismiss his achievements coaching in China, how being a manager is like playing the piano, spending up to 14 hours a day working on his ideas - and, just for good measure, how close he was to joining Chelsea while still a player.

'I was proud that Everton and Watford considered me'

Firstly Everton. It was a greeted as a surprise that Cannavaro made it onto the shortlist to succeed Rafael Benitez but while it was Frank Lampard who ultimately secured the role, the Italian impressed at interview.

“I met the owner [Farhad Moshiri] and he was so clear with me,” he says. “I explained to him my philosophy, my strategy. But of course it’s understandable when you have the opportunity to take Lampard who stays [in England], who knows better than me, maybe, the Premier League… Sometimes when people think about me maybe they think that I don’t know the league, that I don’t have experience in Europe but it’s football. I know what is happening in the clubs, in the changing rooms. But, no, I was proud that Everton and Watford, also, asked me to have an interview and I really appreciate that.”

Watford followed Everton, after the dismissal of Claudio Ranieri. “They spoke to me before Roy Hodgson [was appointed] but they needed a coach quickly,” Cannavaro explains. “They told me they wanted to find a coach in a few days and of course he is a coach with experience in the Premier League, he knows the players. But it was an honour to speak with them and it’s important that I have started to have these conversations.”

There have been discussions with other clubs - notably Fiorentina - and an offer to take over as the coach of the Poland, which he turned down as he wants the cut and thrust of day-to-day management. His desire to get back into the game is balanced by an awareness that it has to be the correct job.

“I know I cannot make a mistake now. I need to choose the right club – in England, Italy, Spain,” Cannavaro says. “Now everyone wants to have big results in a short time so I need to be sure of the club. Even if it’s a small club, I don’t care because I just want to be a coach so I can share my experience. I am really confident I can do a good job.”

'Now it is time to come back to Europe'

There is scepticism as to why, having retired in 2011 after a season playing for UAE club Al-Ahli, Cannavaro stayed in the Middle East and Asia. Was it about the money? He insists not. Instead, as he talks through his CV, there is logic and ambition to his career path – firstly he wanted to be a sporting director, then he realised he wanted to be a coach and going to China made sense, given the call came from Marcello Lippi, who he regards as the best he has worked under and who was in charge when Cannavaro led Italy to their 2006 World Cup win.