Your reservation is made with Africa Travel Limited, a company wholly independent of Telegraph Media Group Limited.

All reservations are made with Africa Travel Limited, a company registered in England under company number 2797491. In the following conditions the term company means Africa Travel Limited and the term customer means the person signing the booking form and all other persons on whose behalf he or she signs it.

All holidays and flights in this brochure are ATOL protected, since we hold an Air Travel Organisers Licence granted by the Civil Aviation Authority. Out ATOL number is ATOL3384. For further information visit the ATOL website at www.atol.org.uk.

To make a holiday booking the customer should complete, sign and send in a booking form with a non-refundable deposit of 20% of the total booking cost, or the full amount if the booking is made within ten weeks of departure. The booking is accepted and the contract made when the company issues a confirmation invoice, which is usually within twenty four hours of receiving the booking form.

Payment of all confirmation invoices must reach the company not later than ten weeks prior to departure.

The company will make every effort to assist you if you wish to alter your arrangements. Requests for an amendment must be in writing, signed by the signatory of the booking form. If the Company is successful in making your requested amendment then you must pay an amendment charge of £50.00 per booking. If the Company is not successful then there will be no charge.

All cancellations must be advised in writing, signed by the signatory of the booking form. Cancellations are effective on the day that they are received by the Company. Recorded delivery is strongly recommended. The following Cancellation charges (together with holiday insurance premium) will be payable, depending on the number of days prior to departure the company receives your notice of cancellation.

Days prior to departure date when written advice of cancellation received versus percentage of total holiday cost:

More than 70 days Loss of deposit

After the confirmation invoice has been issued, the Company makes every effort to operate all holidays as confirmed. In very rare circumstances, the company may have to modify your holiday before you depart. If the modification is significant the Company will notify you as soon as practically possible and you will be entitled to:-

(a) take a substitute package of equivalent quality at no extra cost to you; or

(b) take a substitute package of lower quality and recover from the company the difference in value between the original arrangements and the new ones; or

(c) have repaid to you as soon as possible all monies paid by you under the contract, where upon your holiday arrangements will be cancelled.

In addition, if the Company has to modify your holiday it will pay you compensation for non-performance of the contract (see table below for levels of compensation), if this is for any reason other than ‘force majeure’ (see below)

Days prior to departure when notification of change is sent versus minimum compensation per person

‘Force majeure’ means unusual and unforeseeable circumstances beyond the Company’s control, the consequence of which neither the Company nor its suppliers could avoid even if all due care had been exercised. This may include, but is not limited to, war, threat of war, riot, civil strife, terrorist activity (actual or threatened), industrial dispute, technical problems with transport, machinery or equipment, power failure, natural or nuclear disaster, fire, flood, drought, adverse weather conditions and level of water in rivers.

If the Company becomes unable to provide a significant proportion of your holiday after it has commenced, suitable alternative arrangements will be made for you at no extra charge to you or, alternatively, you will be returned to you point of departure and given a pro rata refund for ground arrangements not received. You may also in such circumstances be entitled to compensation by the Company in accordance with the table above.

If you fail to pay the balance of the holiday price at least ten weeks (seventy days) before departure, the Company will treat your booking as cancelled and levy the cancellation charge as set out in paragraph 3(ii) above.

If the Company is obliged to cancel your holiday in any other circumstances before departure, the Company will use its best endeavours to offer alternative arrangements at no extra cost to you, or offer a substitute package of lower quality and you may recover from the Company the difference in cost, or have repaid to you as soon as possible all monies paid by you. In addition, unless the cancellation has been caused by force majeure the Company will pay you compensation as set out in paragraph 3(ii).

The company reserves the right to change accommodation or services advertised subject to availability, and reserves the right to cancel the tour should the minimum number of people not be met.



(i) We accept responsibility for ensuring that your travel arrangements, which you booked with us are supplied as described in our printed material and the services offered reach a reasonable standard. If any part is not provided as promised, we will pay you the appropriate compensation if this has affected the enjoyment of your travel arrangements.

(ii) We accept responsibility for death, injury or illness caused by the negligent acts and/or omissions of our employees, agents and suppliers, whilst acting within the scope of/or in the course of their employment in the provision of your travel arrangements. We will accordingly pay to you such damages as might have been awarded in such circumstances under English law.

(iii) In respect of the services provided by air or sea carriers, our liability in all cases shall be limited in the manner provided by international conventions and conditions of carriage of our suppliers. Copies of these conventions and, conditions of carriage are available on request. Operational decisions may be taken by air or sea carriers and, airports and ferry terminals resulting in delays, diversions or re-scheduling, over which our company has no control. When such changes are made, our Company will endeavour to minimise any inconvenience.

(vi) If you have a problem

If you have a problem during your holiday, please inform the relevant supplier (e.g., hotel) and our local representative immediately, who will endeavour to put things right. Not only may prompt action enable you to enjoy your holiday, but it is also a legal requirement, the omission of which can substantially affect your rights against our company. If it is not possible to make the complaint to the appropriate organisation at the time, you should make contact with our company, so that our company can endeavour to resolve it. However, should a problem remain unsolved, a complaint should be made in writing to our company office manager within thirty days of your return.

Our suggested itineraries are prepared many months before the start of your holiday and the prices quoted in them are for your guidance only. If at the time of booking the price has changed from that shown in our suggested itineraries, you will be told of the revised price applicable to the travel arrangements before you commit yourself.