Pam & Tommy

Disney+

Squeezing eight episodes out of a sex tape, albeit one of the most infamous ever recorded, feels like a stretch, and Pam & Tommy takes all three of tonight’s episodes to find its feet. Written by Robert Siegel (The Wrestler) and directed by Craig Gillespie (I, Tonya), it gets off to a sluggish start by unexpectedly focusing on mulleted schlub Rand Gauthier (Seth Rogen), the contractor who steals the tape in revenge for being laid off by Motley Crüe’s narcissistic drummer Tommy Lee (Sebastian Stan). Episode two flashes back to the whirlwind romance between Lee and Pamela Anderson (Lily James), whose mutual attraction sees them married within four days of meeting.

Only as the two plotlines meld does it find its tone and dig a little deeper into the grossness of both the delusional West-Coast celebrity world and the invasion of privacy by Rand and the porn barons who co-opt him. But in the meantime there are many superficial pleasures. Stan is enjoyably awful as Lee, while James’s transformation is astonishing, her performance capturing both Anderson’s breathless delivery and peculiar mix of defiant sexuality and wholesome innocence that made her the definitive Nineties pin-up. GT

The Tinder Swindler

Netflix

Producer of Waco and Don’t F**k with Cats, Felicity Morris here makes a striking directorial debut in this captivating true-life thriller about women who, having been swindled by a would-be billionaire playboy after matching online, team up to bring him down. GT



The Responder

BBC One, 9pm

Ratcheting the tension up to almost unbearable levels, Tony Schumacher’s excellent thriller concludes with Chris (Martin Freeman, more tightly coiled than ever) being given one last chance by nemesis Greg (James Nelson-Joyce) and having to pick a side, once and for all. GT



Inside the Factory

BBC Two, 9pm

Surely not the first time Gregg Wallace has had cause to shout about mugs, this latest sends the MasterChef man to the Denby pottery factory in Derbyshire to follow the creation of its Halo Heritage receptacle, while co-host Cherry Healey attempts pattern-printing on teapots. GT



The Bay 

ITV, 9pm

Ostensibly unspectacular yet insidiously gripping, this ITV thriller enters the home stretch with DS Jenn Townsend (Marsha Thomason) looking out for rifts among the Rahmans as Saif’s funeral dawns and tensions threaten to boil over. But might her focus on the case have caused her to ignore problems rather closer to home? GT



Misha and the Wolves: Storyville

BBC Four, 10pm

In the 1990s, Misha Defonseca told friends in her adopted home of the USA of how she had escaped Nazi-occupied Germany and headed east, where she lived off the land and among wolves. Her profile grew as her story spread, with publishers and film-makers circling – then doubts crept in and Defonseca stopped talking. Sam Hobkinson’s startling film asks big, pertinent questions about truth and credulity. GT



China: the Search for the Missing

Channel 4, 11.05pm

Evan Williams and the Dispatches team find disturbing, if depressingly unsurprising evidence of detention, mass surveillance and forced labour in the north-west of China, where most of the much-exploited Uyghur population are situated. With tough clampdowns already promised on protests at the Winter Olympics, it is another grim reminder of the moral compromises made for profit. GT

The Big Steal (1949, b/w) ★★★★

Great! Movies Classic, 5.35pm 

Robert Mitchum and Jane Greer reunited two years after Out of the Past for this neo-noir directed by Don Siegel, based on the story The Road to Carmichael’s by Richard Wormser. When army officer Duke Halliday (Mitchum) is robbed by con artist Jim Fiske (Patric Knowles), he heads to Mexico to hunt him down, teaming up with another of Fiske’s victims (Greer). It’s full of snappy dialogue and tense twists.

The Long and the Short and the Tall (1960, b/w) ★★★

Talking Pictures TV, 9.05pm 

Starring Richard Todd, Richard Harris and Laurence Harvey, this Second World War film, its title coming from the First World War song Bless ’Em All, is set during the Japanese invasion of Burma in 1942. A seven-strong British patrol takes refuge in an abandoned jungle hut and, with the Japanese nearby, loses contact with its command force. Their true colours are revealed.

The Railway Man (2013) ★★★ 

BBC One, 10.35pm 

Jonathan Teplitzky’s soulful adaptation from the memoir of Eric Lomax digs into the plight of British prisoners of war forced to build the Thai-Burma railway during the Second World War. Nicole Kidman plays the woman who falls in love with Lomax (Colin Firth) but finds herself isolated from him as he retreats into agonised memories he cannot share. The film does respectable justice to Lomax’s ordeal but little more.