Following the death of my parents, my two siblings and I have received an inheritance.

Ideally, we would like to invest my sister's share on her behalf to provide income for her retirement and make access difficult for her before then. She is a generous but ridiculous spendthrift and has nothing saved for her retirement.

Her Isas have been cashed in for opulent bathrooms, kitchens and generally excessive amounts of home furnishings.

Is it possible for us to do this legally without tax implications for ourselves? I want to keep my tax allowances to give my own children money in the future.

My sister is 53 and doesn't work but hopes to find a job soon. We gave her £90,000 from my mother's estate, which she has spent already, and we owe her another £110,000 from my father's estate.

Our dad did not name her in his will, verbally entrusting my brother and me to look after the money for her. Can we invest the money within our own portfolio and give her monthly pension payouts, or should we do everything in her name?

Despite infuriating us with her extravagance, she has suffered a stressful life and, we want her to be able to have a comfortable retirement.

Family inheritance disputes can be fraught with emotion, and your father was not the first to worry about how his children would spend his money.

Your father did not name your sister in his will but did intend for her to have her share under your guidance.

The fact that he verbally trusted you and your brother to look after the money for her, rather than putting it in writing, could make this a legally contentious issue.

According to probate solicitors IWC, verbal alterations to a will are technically legal but are almost impossible to enforce in reality.

There must be at least one witness to a verbal alteration who has nothing to gain by the will, which you and your brother both do.

Thankfully, you have no plans to keep your sister’s portion of the inheritance to yourselves and are fully prepared to give her a share – albeit on your terms.

However, your sister may argue that your father intended for her to have her share, but not under your guidance.

If your sister suspects the will does not reflect your father's true intentions or that his wishes have not been followed correctly, she may have grounds to contest it. The verbal component here makes this all the trickier.

You will have to decide whether respecting your father’s last wishes to manage her portion yourselves is worth the risk of causing a rift in the family.

You claim she is bad with money, but she is a grown adult raising two children. You should consider whether it is your business to decide how she spends her money, even if you do so with the best intentions.

If you decide to simply give her her share, you should not feel guilty if she is left with little in retirement should she spend it frivolously.

A good compromise might be to give your sister her share but encourage her to contact an adviser who would help her make more prudent decisions.

Alternatively, you could encourage her to use the money to buy an annuity, which would provide a guaranteed income in retirement.

Remember, you will not be able to use your own Isas without using up your own tax allowances. As you intend to pass on a portion of your inheritance to your children, you should consider setting up a Junior Isa for them.