Meanwhile, the Prime Minister's attempts to draw a line under the "partygate" findings published on Monday began to unravel.

Political Editor Ben Riley-Smith can disclose that Antonia Romeo, one of the UK's most senior female civil servants, has decided not to seek the newly created permanent secretary role at No 10.

With growing questions about if Mr Johnson's shakeup of his operation has gone far enough, The Telegraph today reveals that Mr Johnson was in the Downing Street flat on the night of an "Abba" gathering being investigated by police for potential Covid law breaches.

The PM was seen heading up to his flat on November 13 2020 - the day Dominic Cummings, his former senior adviser, was forced out - and songs including The Winner Takes It All were reportedly heard blaring from the flat.

PMQs at midday is likely to be another bruising affair. Submit your questions to our panel of experts before they discuss Mr Johnson's performance on Twitter Spaces.

Menopause drugs to be sold without a prescription

Hormone replacement therapy is to be made available over the counter for the first time, health watchdogs are poised to announce. Until now, women have only been able to access the medication after consultation with a GP or a specialist. Every year, about 1.5 million women experience troubling post-menopausal symptoms, including hot flushes, night sweats, difficulty sleeping and emotional problems. Of those, about 150,000 are prescribed HRT, in the form of tablets, gels, creams or patches. Health Editor Laura Donnelly can disclose that watchdogs are expected to propose a reclassification of the medication, so that women will be able to access it in a pharmacy without a prescription.

£80m budget for BBC Three and this is what you get

BBC Three is back on television. It has an £80million budget and the pre-publicity promised a menu of "exciting, groundbreaking content". So why did its launch night have what Arts and Entertainment Editor Anita Singh described as "all the freshness of a stale loaf"? The BBC assures us new shows are in the pipeline, but Anita says it is baffling the channel chose to kick off with such a weak line-up. Read her one-star review.

View Matt's latest cartoon as he imagines what "levelling up" might really mean.

Also in the news: Today's other headlines

Covid fatality rate falls to the level of flu | It is a question that has plagued the pandemic. Is coronavirus really any more deadly than flu? Before the vaccine roll-out and omicron surge, the answer was undoubtedly: "Yes". But, as Science Editor Sarah Knapton explores, the situation has changed dramatically in recent weeks. New financial accounts also reveal the true scale of pandemic waste. And read our dispatch from Denmark, where Covid is over - again - after it became the first country in Europe to put an end to all coronavirus-related laws.
• Energy bills | PM prepares billions in loans to help with soaring costs
• Online trolls | Two years in jail for messages 'likely to cause harm'

Around the world: Stark message to Kremlin

Western sanctions will hit Moscow "as soon as the first Russian toe cap" crosses into Ukraine, Boris Johnson said as he warned time was running out to deter Vladimir Putin from an invasion. He spoke on a visit to Kyiv, shortly after the Russian president broke his weeks-long silence on the crisis, accusing Nato and the US of "ignoring" Moscow’s "fundamental concerns", but saying he was prepared to continue dialogue. Senior Foreign Correspondent Roland Oliphant has our report from Kyiv.