Sadiq Khan is threatening to shut the Tube for days on end and close bridges and tunnels across the capital as a black hole in London’s transport budget balloons to £1.5bn.

Introducing a road tax, increasing council tax and extending a congestion charging zone will not be enough to balance the books at Transport for London (TfL), board papers published on Tuesday reveal.

Meanwhile, a programme to avoid road deaths will need to be put on hold, officials from the transport authority warned.

TfL’s finances have been ravaged by sharp fall in fare revenue during the pandemic. Critics of the London mayor claim that his 2016 pledge to freeze fares contributed to the authority’s plight.

Mr Khan, who is also TfL chairman, has been dependent on a series of bailouts from Westminster to avoid the London Underground and buses grinding to a halt. The funding has come with strings attached, however, such as a pledge to explore the introduction of driverless Tubes.

The Department for Transport has snubbed pleas for TfL to retain its share of vehicle excise duty, or “road tax”, leading to Mr Khan proposing the introduction of a £2 “clear air charge” for drivers in the capital.

A so-called boundary charge of up to £5.50 a day levied on motorists entering greater London is also being considered.

Gareth Bacon, Conservative MP for Orpington, said: "The Government will cover the cost of coronavirus, but Sadiq Khan needs to come up with a plan to pay for London's public transport in the long term. Undoubtedly, his decision to freeze fares, which lost TfL at least £640m, has made this task far harder.

"Getting to grips with the cost of TfL's gold-plated pensions, staff perks and bonuses will save millions of pounds. But the Mayor needs to look at ways to revive London's economy and boost ridership. That's the key to restoring the network’s finances.”

Caroline Pidgeon, Liberal Democrat member of the Greater London Authority and transport committee chairman, said: “Bus services have already seen a decline in frequency and soon many other TfL transport services will be cut back as well, unless the Government starts to treat TfL on the same terms as the financial support it readily offers to the train operating companies.

“The playing of games over London’s transport services needs to come to an end.”