Former President Donald Trump spent 2021 stockpiling $122 million in campaign cash while contributing just $350,000 to Republican efforts to recapture Congress in midterm elections.

That sum, in the form of contributions to Trump-endorsed candidates, amounts to less than one-half of 1% of the more than $100 million the former president raised last year with Save America and other political groups under his control. Neither the Republican National Committee nor the party’s House and Senate campaign arms received a dime from Trump, although they are hardly hurting for money to spend against the Democrats in 2022.

“What his numbers demonstrate, with the record-setting successes of the [National Republican Congressional Committee], [National Republican Senatorial Committee], RNC, and individual candidates, is that the Republican [wealthy] donor, small-dollar donor, and activist bases are hyperengaged and enthusiastic right now — arguably in a similar way that the Democrats were in 2018 to 2020,” said Rob Simms, a GOP strategist.

In a statement, Trump spokesman Taylor Budowich characterized the former president’s fundraising prowess as the Republican Party’s success, proof that the GOP is poised to romp in November. “From the massive and unprecedented Save America rallies, to these record-breaking fundraising numbers, there is no question that the MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN (MAGA!) wave is set to crash across the midterms and carry forward all the way through 2024,” he said.

Budowich’s statement also signaled that Trump’s fundraising is intended to prime the pump for the next cycle, when he could mount a third consecutive White House bid. “President Trump is incredibly well positioned to look beyond November as the need for his leadership has never been more important,” he said. But Trump is not waiting for the next cycle, and his fundraising comes as most Republicans are throwing every available resource into winning this year.

“That's a lot of money to take off the table in a [midterm] year, but anyone who thought that Trump was going to generously spread the considerable wealth around hasn't paid him any attention in the past five years,” said Doug Heye, a Republican strategist occasionally critical of Trump.

Trump is not the only Republican eyeing a 2024 bid to spend last year building an operation, and a war chest, for the possibility of that endeavor. At least a half-dozen others in this party did the same — and still are. But none can compete with the former president when it comes to the sheer volume of money raised. Indeed, Trump’s closest competitor, in terms of money raised and cash on hand, is the RNC.

The RNC collected $156.8 million in 2021, more than the former president’s $110 million-plus. But Trump finished with more cash on hand, $122 million across his political committees, compared to just $56.3 million for the RNC. That is due to all the investments the national party committee is making in GOP campaigns and affiliated committees in an effort to reclaim the House and Senate this November.

That includes transfers of $10 million to the NRCC, the House GOP campaign arm, and $10 million to the NRSC, the party’s Senate campaign arm. In a statement, RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said the committee has had one goal in mind: “building the infrastructure to take back the House and Senate in 2022.” Meanwhile, the former president has focused his two major contributions on bolstering policy-oriented groups that support the populist wing of the GOP.

In June, Save America transferred $1 million to the America First Policy Institute, and in July, the group contributed $1 million to the Conservative Partnership Institute. The $350,000 Trump doled out to GOP candidates went to the roughly 70 Republican candidates he has endorsed for state and federal offices. Each received a $5,000 donation, the maximum allowed in a primary campaign under federal law.

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM THE WASHINGTON EXAMINER

Trump’s strong fundraising operation is fueled by grassroots donors who give in small amounts.

Losing the White House and presiding over his party’s loss of the House in 2018 and Senate in 2020 caused the former president few, if any, hiccups on the financial front in 2021. From July 1 through Dec. 31, Trump’s political committees hauled in more than $51 million from more than 1.6 million individual donations that averaged $31 each, with 98.6% of all contributions coming in below $200.