Model and TikTok star Emira D’Spain is making history as the first Black transgender model to work with Victoria's Secret.

D’Spain, known for her beauty tips and comedic “Get Ready With Me” makeup videos on TikTok, partnered with Victoria’s Secret to create a “Single Girl’s Guide to the Perfect Valentine’s Day,” a how-to video for people spending the holiday on their own.

“The best love is self love!” D’Spain captioned the video.

In the video, D’Spain showed herself getting ready for a day of pampering, styling herself in a red Victoria’s Secret corset, black miniskirt and jacket, and suede Louboutin boots. Then, D'Spain was off for a self-care day around New York City, where she bought herself diamond earrings and flowers.

“I don’t need a man to buy me flowers,” D'Spain said in the video, before concluding: “Valentine’s Day may be about love, but it also includes loving yourself.”

D’Spain said the theme of self-love of the collaboration is an extension of the positive message she wants to convey in her social media content. “My entire platform is built on confidence and self-love,” D’Spain said in a statement to USA TODAY.

She continued: "I want to empower young trans women and men around the world to show them that the beauty and fashion industries are changing, especially if you are a POC. I am so grateful to work with Victoria’s Secret and hope this paves the way for those after me."

Victoria's Secret collaboration with D’Spain is a departure from the brand’s fraught history with trans representation. In a 2018 Vogue interview, then chief marketing officer Ed Razek said he didn't think Victoria's Secret annual fashion show should include “transsexuals” because “the show is a fantasy.” Razek later apologized for his comments.

“To be clear, we absolutely would cast a transgender model in our show,” Razek said at the time. “We've had transgender models come to castings… And like many others, they didn't make it… But it was never about gender. I admire and respect their journey to embrace who they really are.”

More:Victoria's Secret exec apologizes for comments about not casting transgender models

The significance of her collaboration with the beauty brand – as both a trans and Black woman – is not lost on D’Spain, who gave a shoutout to fellow transgender model Valentina Sampaio in an Instagram post on Tuesday. Sampaio was the first transgender model to be featured in Victoria's Secret campaign in 2019.

“Honored to be the first black trans girl working with @victoriassecret,” D’Spain wrote alongside photos of herself from the video. “As a kid I only DREAMED of being a part of Victoria’s Secret. @valentts paved the way and it’s such an honor to continue that legacy on the first day of black history month.”

On Tuesday, Victoria's Secret shared in an Instagram post that the company was "excited to recognize February as a time to acknowledge Black women."

"Throughout the month, we’ll spotlight associates, business leaders, advocates, and industry trendsetters who motivate us each and every day #VSCelebratesBHM," the caption read.

D’Spain has also worked with major brands such as Google, and beauty brands Anastasia Beverly Hills and Rihanna's Fenty Skin.

More:Rihanna and A$AP Rocky, Beyoncé and Jay-Z and other unique celebrity baby announcements