Brian Flores filed a class-action lawsuit against the New York Giants and the NFL on Tuesday, alleging that his interview to be their next head coach was a "sham" because the Giants had already had offered the job to Brian Daboll, who ended up being hired.

Included in the lawsuit is allegedly a series of text messages from New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick to Flores congratulating him on landing the Giants' job.

The texts, according to Flores, were sent before Flores' interview, which took place Thursday. Apparently, Belichick mistakenly texted the wrong Brian – both Daboll and Flores have spent time on his coaching staff in New England.

In a statement obtained by NorthJersey.com and USA TODAY Network, the Giants denied any wrongdoing in their interview process in hiring Daboll as their head coach.

As part of the league's Rooney Rule, intended on promoting and enhancing opportunities for minority candidates, teams are required to interview at least one external minority candidate in person for head coaching openings.

GET THE LATEST UPDATES:Sign up for Sports newsletter

"God had gifted me with a special talent to coach the game of football, but the need for change is bigger than my person goals," Flores said in a statement. "In making the decision to file the (complaint), I understand that I may be risking coaching the game that I love and that has done so much for my family and me. My sincere hope is that by standing up against system racism in the NFL, others will join me to ensure that positive change is made for generations to come."

The Giants interviewed three minority candidates: Flores on Thursday and Buffalo Bills defensive coordinator Leslie Frazier, both in person, in addition to internal candidate Patrick Graham, their defensive coordinator.

Any merit with regard to Flores and his claims against the Giants would seem to hinge on proving the job was offered to Daboll before they were compliant with the Rooney Rule by interviewing Flores and Frazier.

"We are pleased and confident with the process that resulted in the hiring of Brian Daboll," the Giants said in the statement. "We interviewed an impressive and diverse group of candidates. The fact of the matter is, Brian Flores was in the conversation to be our head coach until the eleventh hour. Ultimately, we hired the individual we felt was most qualified to be our next head coach."

The NFL also released a statement that dismissed claims made in Flores' lawsuit.

"The NFL and our clubs are deeply committed to ensuring equitable employment practices and continue to make progress in providing equitable opportunities throughout our organizations. Diversity is core to everything we do, and there are few issues on which our clubs and our internal leadership team spend more time. We will defend against these claims, which are without merit."