In a move that highlights rising concerns about the risks of COVID-19 to young children, Pfizer-BioNTech on Tuesday asked for federal authorization for its vaccine for children 6 months to 4 years old.

Companies usually make the decision to submit a request to Food and Drug Administration on their own, but in this instance it was made at the urging of the federal agency.

"That’s not typically the way the federal government works. Usually, they wait and let the company decide when it wants to submit," said Dr. Paul Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.

FDA said concerns about children are behind the request.

Early on in the pandemic, young children were less likely to be affected by COVID-19 but the appearance of new variants is “having a much greater toll on children,” the agency said in a statement to USA TODAY.

“In light of these new data and the rise in illnesses and hospitalization in this youngest age group, FDA believed that it was prudent to request that Pfizer submit the data it had available, including the data that it has recently collected during the omicron surge,” the statement said.

Parents and doctors are eagerly awaiting the day the vaccine can be given to the youngest children. If approved, Pfizer would be the first for this age group.

Cases of COVID-19 in children have topped 10 million. In January, pediatric hospitalizations for COVID-19 were at their highest rate compared to any prior point in the pandemic. As of Jan. 26, 280 children in the United States aged 4 and under had died of COVID-19, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Having FDA ask a company to make a submission is certainly "unusual," said Glen Nowak, director of the University of Georgia's Center for Health and Risk Communications and a former communication director for the National Immunization Program at the CDC.

"But then, the pandemic has been unusual. We've had so many things happen that have never happened before," he said. "In the context of the pandemic, it probably makes sense that the FDA would be encouraging manufacturers who have promising vaccines to make those things available as fast as they possibly can assuming they’re safe and effective."

'How much longer will little kids have to wait?' Doctors send letter to FDA demanding COVID vaccines for kids under 5

How effective will it be?

The Pfizer vaccine would be given in a low-dose format for young children, with dosing dependent on age. Everyone 12 and over gets a 30-microgram dose. Children 5 and older get a 10-microgram dose. If approved, children under 5 would receive a 3-microgram dose.

For now, Pfizer's request is that the FDA issue an emergency use authorization for a two-dose vaccine series, even though the company is currently conducting clinical trials for two doses plus a third booster shot.

In late December, Pfizer said two doses in 2- to 4-year-olds had not been shown effective against COVID-19. The children in the trial did not mount enough of an immune response to suggest they would be protected against severe disease.

However, younger children, ages 6 months to 2 years, did show an adequate immune response.

The question is now whether the two-dose series is effective enough to meet FDA's original bar for approval of being at least 50% more effective than a placebo in preventing or at decreasing the severity of COVID-19 .

Data on a booster dose given 8 weeks after the initial two-dose series "are expected in the coming months and will be submitted to the FDA to support a potential expansion of this requested EUA," Pfizer said in a statement.

FDA's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee will meet on Feb. 15 to discuss the data Pfizer has presented on the two-dose series.

The committee can't make any recommendations on a three-dose series because it won't be seeing those results yet. Any decisions "will depend on what data we see," said Offit, who sits on the committee.

The situation is similar to that faced by the Johnson & Johnson vaccine when it was first presented to the committee.

"J&J asked for approval of a one-dose vaccine while they were in the midst of clinical trials for a booster dose," said Offit. Eventually, that data was submitted and FDA approved a one-plus-booster regime for J&J.

By allowing two doses of the Pfizer vaccine for little kids in the near term, a third dose could be available sooner. A third dose is in clinical trials now, and officials think it may provide a stronger immune response. The company said last month that study would be complete by late April or early May.

Dr. Stan Spinner is happy the FDA and companies are moving forward and eager to get younger kids vaccinated – starting with his two granddaughters who were both volunteers in the research trial.

"I don't see any reason to wait. I'm very very comfortable with the safety data," said Spinner, chief medical officer and vice president of Texas Children’s Pediatrics & Texas Children’s Urgent Care in Houston.

Although most young children recover from a COVID-19 infection just fine, a small percentage end up with severe disease or lingering symptoms, he said.

The shots won't prevent all disease, but will "keep it to a cold rather than being out of school for two weeks or hospitalized," Spinner said.

Vaccinating young children will also help slow the pandemic, he said. People who are vaccinated, even if they get infected, shed less virus for less time and so are less likely to infect others.

Two low-dose shots will at least start protecting this younger age group, said Spinner, who expects a third will be needed to provide full benefit. "Two doses will give reasonable, just not optimal protection," he said, but it makes sense "to get that started and not continue to delay."

Pfizer-BioNTech tested the higher, 10-microgram dose in toddlers, but found that many spiked fevers. With the lower dose, Spinner said, "pretty much all the fevers went away. They just wiped out pretty much any of these reactions, which was great."

Every medical intervention has the potential for side effects, Spinner said, but those risks are tiny compared to the known problems that a COVID-19 infection can cause.

"I trust these vaccines and I have zero concerns about the safety," he said.