ZHANGJIAKOU, China – Could the dry mountains of China provide the best snowboarding courses ever in the Olympics?

The English speaking in-venue announcer for snowboard and free ski events at Genting Snow Park has experience announcing events all over the USA: the Burton US Open, Grand Prix and World Cup events and the X Games.

The Portsmouth, New Hampshire native, and former snowboarder, said the course stands out already, days before competition begins for the Winter Games.

“The course here is very challenging. It’s immaculate. It’s one of the best courses that’s ever been built – ever,” said Wormstead. “And they’re really excited about it. We talked to some athletes yesterday so they were hyped.”

Fans watching on TV will be looking for the crazy spins – the bigger the spins, the higher they go – but to be here in person is really to see the layout of the course.

“The setup is really great, how it’s built up in sections,” said Wormstead. “The rail sections where they do some of the sliding, there’s some good opportunities for them to use different features. And then the spacing of the course, how it’s built. The pitch of the hill. Everything is just perfect. We should see a really good show.”

OLYMPIC NEWSLETTER:Follow Team USA's chase for gold with updates to your inbox

The arid countryside doesn’t matter as much in these events as it does for something like cross country skiing. It takes a lot of artificially made snow to properly fill a halfpipe and slopestyle course anywhere.

And Zhangjiakou – more than 100 miles north and west of Beijing – apparently caught on quick.

Wormstead, who is also working with DJ Aaron Markham, from Denver, wants to create the right atmosphere.

It’s up to them. While there were about 50-75 people in attendance in the stands to watch practice runs on Wednesday, fans are generally excluded from the Beijing Games due to China’s zero-COVID policy. Only selected fans will be permitted to attend. The snowboarding competition starts Saturday with women's slopestyle qualifying.

So Wormstead and Markham are here, basically, for the athletes.

“We’re part of the live show so we’re just trying to provide an environment for the spectators that can be there,” said Markham.

“And then of course, the athletes. Some different events we can get requests from athletes.”

The goal is simple: to educate and entertain a sport that many hope will take off in China with the new resorts built up all around the course.

“So for everyone here who speaks English – I want to make sure they’re informed as to what’s going on,” said Wormstead.

“It’s really about the growth of the sport overall. Snowboarding has been around for awhile but compared to the traditional sports back home like football, baseball, basketball, it’s still pretty new. And for all the fans in China, this is such a growing market to educate them and show them how cool and fun it really is.”