Earlier, basketball great Yao Ming and a Chinese soldier wounded in a border clash with India joined in a torch relay set to last just three days and only be viewed by selected members of the public before the Olympic cauldron is lit.

"Putin is very busy now. He is here because he has to be," said Shi Yinhong, an international relations professor at Beijing's Renmin University. "Putin knows China is indispensable for Russia, just as Russia is indispensable for China."

Saudi Arabia's Mohammed bin Salman, Pakistan's Imran Khan and Mohammed bin Zayed al Nahyhan of the United Arab Emirates were among several Middle Eastern and Asian leaders expected to attend. From Europe, only Poland and Serbia have said they will send their heads of state.

His talks with Xi, however, will be closely watched for signs of increasing cooperation between China and Russia, which have grown closer as both of their ties with the West have soured.

The Kremlin has said that Putin and Xi would spend a "lot of time" discussing security in Europe and the demands Russia has made of the West, and that Putin would certainly brief his Chinese counterpart about Russia's talks with NATO.

"Even if we put the whole international political situation aside, it will be an important visit during which some decisions can be outlined," said Vasily Kashin, a China specialist at Moscow's HSE University.

China would likely prefer to have the situation in Ukraine demand heightened U.S. diplomatic attention without requiring Beijing to take sides, said Bonny Lin, a senior fellow and director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

"Beijing has said this: It's not in their best interest for there to be an actual conflict in Ukraine," she said.

"The best scenario for China is to more or less maintain the current state, maybe deescalate a little bit, but get just enough attention that it diverts the U.S. away from Indo-Pacific, but doesn't actually force China to do anything or to take any hard costs."

It will be up to the United States to show the rest of its allies in the region that it is not being so distracted by Ukraine that it has forgotten about China, said Derek Grossman, a senior defence analyst at the RAND Corporation.