He took the New England Patriots to the upper echelon of the league during his 20-year run with the team, filling the franchise’s trophy case with six Lombardi trophies while cementing his own status as possibly the game’s all-time greatest player.

He remained a beloved son in New England even after he departed for Tampa Bay following the 2019 season, promptly won his seventh ring with the Buccaneers and then returned the following year to defeat his former team.

But Brady’s failure to include even a single mention of the Patriots or their fans in his lengthy retirement announcement on Tuesday was met with a chilly reception that’s left many perplexed about one of the region’s most beloved sports figures.

While Brady’s announcement quickly rose to the No. 2 trending topic on Twitter, “New England” was also in the top 5 nationally, boosted by a steady stream of comments from fans about the perceived slight.

Reactions covered every extreme, from those who were outraged by the seeming snub to others who found no fault with it at all.

“Thanks for the memories Tom. Thank you for all you’ve given to My patriots,” one fan wrote underneath Brady’s announcement on Twitter. “Thank you for your dedication and love of the game.”

That changed Tuesday when he made it official with Twitter and Instagram posts topped with a picture of him in a Buccaneers uniform, followed by an 18-paragraph statement in which he explained his decision to “leave the field of play to the next generation.” He went on to thank the city of Tampa, his Bucs teammates, the team’s owners, coach Bruce Arians, general manager Jason Licht and “every single Bucs staffer and employee.”

But he said not a word about the franchise that gave him his NFL shot by selecting him in the sixth round of the 2000 NFL draft.

Kraft's statement said: “Words cannot describe the feelings I have for Tom Brady, nor adequately express the gratitude my family, the New England Patriots and our fans have for Tom for all he did during his career.”

In that extensive electronic missive, Brady declared himself “Forever A Patriot” while thanking coach Bill Belichick, Kraft and his teammates “for the past twenty years of my life and the daily commitment to winning and creating a winning culture built on great values.”

Brady received a warm reception from his former teammates and coaches and publicly embraced both Kraft and Belichick. He also had an extended private meeting with Belichick after the game.