ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Nearly three years after their self-declared caliphate was dismantled and their forces defeated in a battle by the Euphrates river, Islamic State fighters are waging a guerrilla campaign from remote regions of Iraq and Syria.

The March 2019 battle of Baghouz, by the Syria-Iraq border, ended Islamic State control which once extended across swathes of both countries, including the cities of Raqqa and Mosul.

It also completed the group's strategic shift from a force which had ruled over the daily lives of millions of people back to an insurgency launching attacks from the shadows.

Beyond Quraishi, an Iraqi who was once held in U.S. custody, little is know of Islamic State's leadership - partly because it now operates in a secretive structure of autonomous local cells, rather than the centralised administration of the "caliphate".

The U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State said in mid-2019, after the last stand in Baghouz, that the group retained 14,000 to 18,000 members, including 3,000 foreigners, though there have been other varied estimates.

"This is an organisation that has retained a significant amount of manpower," said Charles Lister of the Washington-based Middle East Institute. "In terms of kinetically operating cells, I imagine we are talking in the very low thousands in both countries together. But it's virtually impossible to measure."

Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces who control the area said 40 of their troops, 77 prison guards and four civilians were killed, as well as 374 Islamic State attackers or detainees, in the attempted jail break.

The latest U.S. government report said Islamic State claimed 182 attacks in Iraq and 19 in Syria over a three-month period. While that was lower than previously, the report noted the group was still able to carry out lethal and complex operations.

"What we have seen in the last six to 12 months, on both sides of the Syrian and Iraq border, is that (IS) cells have been more willing to launch bolder raids," Lister said.

Areas of Syria's eastern desert outside government control also provide a haven for Islamic State, while Syrian Kurdish-led forces that rule northeast Syria are ill-equipped for a counter-insurgency role needed to keep the group from regrouping.

Its predecessor, Islamic State in Iraq, was largely crushed in 2007-9 when the United States reinforced troops and allied them with local fighters to put down that insurgency.

At the same time, using intimidation, extortion and theft they gained resources and power over local populations - preparing them for the moment in 2014 when they seized control of the city of Mosul and a large part of northern Iraq.