WEST Midland Safari Park has backtracked on its decision to axe free entry for carers following public outrage.

The Bewdley attraction will now once again offer free entry for carers of paying guests with disabilities after cancelling the policy last month.

A spokesperson for West Midland Safari Park said, "At the start of this year, we introduced discounted entry for carers who accompany guests with disabilities. That decision was taken after considering several factors, including a rise in the misuse of the policy.

"We would like to say thank you to everyone who has taken the time to contact us with regards to the changes. We appreciate all feedback and take the thoughts of our guests very seriously.

"Following an internal review, and listening carefully to views and opinions, we can confirm that as of today, we will be reinstating our policy of free entry for essential carers who are accompanying a paying guest with disabilities. As before, we still require the necessary documentation and will also be introducing stringent new checks.

"We’d like to reassure our guests that we will be issuing refunds to those who have paid the carer charge over the last month, or who have bought a carer annual pass and will contact those guests individually this week.

"We’d like to thank everyone for their feedback and continued support."

Previously, Helen Ashby, who is the mum of disabled man David Sheriff, was furious about the park's decision and said she wouldn't be renewing her son's pass unless free entry for carers was reintroduced.

The safari park is David's favourite place to visit

Reacting to the U-turn, she said: "It's the right thing to do for them as a company and for their visitors.

"It was just wrong. My main feeling is relief and gratitude that they've seen sense.

"I think they were probably shocked at the pressure that came and they thought that the disabled community are a quiet group.

"It's a good win for the little people."

She added: "The facilities are fantastic and it's David's favourite place to go.

"For us it will mean buying the annual pass and attending regularly."

Wyre Forest District Councillor Leigh Whitehouse, for Blakebrook & Habberley South ward, said: "I’m pleased West Midland Safari Park listened to the concerns raised and took subsequent action.

"As of today, carers will be able to enter for free once more. I’m delighted, thank you to all involved."