Olmert is among a group of former Israeli leaders and security chiefs who have found new careers in the country’s tightly controlled medical cannabis industry. They hope not only to cash in on the local market, but also to clear the way for the country’s major marijuana producers to export.

“Everything will change dramatically overnight if there will be legalization,” Olmert, an adviser to the start-up Univo, told The Associated Press. In Israel alone, he said, “the market would be unlimited. It would be huge.”

Over 100,000 Israelis have permits to consume medical cannabis, according to the Health Ministry, a 16-fold increase in the past decade. The boom is in large part thanks to a reform that took effect in 2019 making it easier for doctors to prescribe cannabis to people suffering from chronic pain, cancer, PTSD, epilepsy and other conditions.

Medical cannabis consumption in Israel grew to 43 metric tons last year, from 28.5 million tons in 2020, according to the Health Ministry. Israel’s medicinal cannabis market was valued at around $264 million in 2021, roughly $7 million less than the entirety of Europe, according to Prohibition Partners, an industry analysis firm.

Univo is one of a few companies in Israel that has full vertical integration from farm to pharmacy. His company’s facility is housed in a nondescript warehouse in the industrial zone of the southern city of Ashkelon. The clean-rooms where buds are processed are heavy with resinous pungency.

Bitton said the facility is capable of testing, processing and packing up to 80 tons per year. But due to bureaucracy in the last year it only handled around six tons, some of it imported. Like other companies in Israel’s cannabis industry, he said Univo is primed for the moment regulations change.

That is where Olmert and his counterparts come in. Olmert spent decades as Jerusalem’s mayor, a member of parliament, Cabinet minister and prime minister from 2006-2009 before a corruption conviction sent him to prison for 16 months. The company is hoping that Olmert’s public profile and intimate knowledge of Israeli bureaucracy can improve the business atmosphere.

“I really think that there is not a reason, except for some fears and obsessions and prejudices, that keeps (away) the complete legalization of cannabis,” Olmert said.

“It’s a market of several hundred millions of dollars, just in medical, and it’s growing very fast in Israel,” said Barak, who became chairman of cannabis manufacturer Intercure in 2018. “I expect that once it will be legalized, we will see a flourishing of the market for extreme, top-quality products."

Israel has been at the forefront of medical cannabis research since the 1960s, when Hebrew University chemist Raphael Mechoulam first isolated THC, marijuana’s primary psychoactive compound. Israeli scientists and entrepreneurs continue to develop new strains of cannabis, cultivation methods — such as generating THC-laden cells inside a sterile biorector — and medical applications for cannabinoids.