In the face of three such strikes in as many weeks, U.S. officials are studying financial measures targeting the Houthis and the group's top figures, with new sanctions possible as soon as this week. It's the latest in a so-far unsuccessful push by the Biden administration to get Houthi leaders into peace talks and wind down an eight-year war that has taken a devastating toll on Yemen, a nation of millions of impoverished people and cities thousands of years old, afflicted by misgovernment and wars.

“What I would hope ... is that is the administration has now recognized that strategy, whether it was right or wrong in February of 2021, is not working, has not worked, and therefore they need to change their approach,” said Gerald Feierstein, the Obama administration's ambassador to Yemen from 2010 to 2013.

The Saudi-led coalition battling the Houthis has intensified airstrikes, including on Yemen's Houthi-held capital, Sanaa, in retaliation for the Houthis' missile and drone strikes into the UAE, which follow sporadic strikes into Saudi territory. The retaliatory airstrikes have added to the war's civilian toll and drawn condemnation from U.N. officials and some Democrats in Congress. But they've failed to stop the Houthi missiles and attack drones.

Houthis moved south, capturing the capital by 2014 and much of the rest of the north. A Yemen government backed by the U.N. and Saudi Arabia fled into exile in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi-backed coalition, aided by the U.S. until the Biden administration announced last year it was ending offensive support, sought to restore the rival government. Iran has supported the Houthis increasingly as the war goes on, including with what the UAE says were the missiles fired into its territory.

“So they feel that they can get away with whatever they can get away with right now,” Fatima Abo Alasrar, a Yemen and Gulf analyst with the Washington-based Middle East Institute, said of the Houthis. “Because it would be disastrous if the U.S. or other countries intervene.”

Biden took the Houthis off the terror list as one of his first acts. Saudis and the Emiratis have pushed to put them back on. The designation restricts others from financial and other dealings with the Houthis. Opponents say the designation had little impact on the Houthis, an insular group with few financial dealings overseas, but devastated aid and commercial food and fuel shipments into Yemen, where some 80% of the population lives under the de facto Houthi government.

“That’s what we fear the most for a country that suffered this much, for this long,” said Amanda Catanzano, vice president of policy for the International Rescue Committee. “Where more than half the population doesn’t have enough to eat, and 5 million people are on the brink of starvation.”

Individual sanctions on Houthi leaders at least would have the impact of alarming those individuals — making them aware that the United States was aware of who they were, and might be thinking of targeting them, Abo Alasrar said.