And that’s really saying something.

This week on the The View, Goldberg put forth the asinine idea that the Holocaust was NOT about race.

How is such an idiotic comment even possible?

Well, I guess it is because Goldberg not only said it but then repeatedly defended it.

She was suspended over this clip:

“Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments,” ABC News president Kim Godwin said in a statement Tuesday evening. “While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments.” “The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends and communities,” Godwin added. Goldberg went viral on Monday when she argued that the Holocaust “isn’t about race,” stunning her colleagues at the table. “It’s about man’s inhumanity to man, that’s what it’s about,” Goldberg said. “But it’s about a White supremacist going after Jews and Gypsies,” guest co-host Ana Navarro said as Goldberg attempted to speak over her. “But these are two White groups of people,” Goldberg said as her colleagues disagreed. Jewish groups condemned the comments, accusing her of minimizing Jewish suffering. Goldberg attempted to explain her remarks during her appearance on “The Late Show.” “It upset a lot of people which was never, ever, ever, ever my intention… I thought we were having a discussion,” Goldberg told Stephen Colbert. “I think of race as being something that I can see… “You couldn’t tell who was Jewish. They had to delve deeply to figure it out… My point is, they had to do the work.” She also told Colbert, “I don’t want to fake apologize…I’m very upset that people misunderstood what I was saying.” Before the pre-taped interview aired on CBS, Goldberg issued an apology. “On today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’ I should have said it is about both,” Goldberg wrote in a statement. “As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race.’ I stand corrected.”

Come on Guinan….you’re better than this!

Or at least you should be!