On Monday, two major Iran-related security incidents took place in a span of three hours.

Although the missile was launched by the Houthi fighters, it was clearly an Iranian assault on the Gulf nation and could serve to further strengthen Israeli–Emirati security cooperation.

The predawn strike on Damascus came just over a week after a joint flyby of the Russian and Syrian air forces along Israel's Golan Heights border, which some believe signals the Kremlin's dissatisfaction with increasing Israeli attacks against its north-eastern neighbor.

Advanced Russian fighter jets, including Sukhoi Su-34s and 35s and A-50s, as well Syrian MiG-23s and 29s, took part in a drill that Russian defense officials described as the first in what was to become a routine occurrence.

The higher-ups in the Israeli defense establishment were quick to contact their Russian counterparts, voicing their concerns a shift in Moscow's policy in the region would hamper Israel's efforts to prevent Iran's entrenchment along its northern border.

Jerusalem is concerned that Iran would station its proxies along its border with Syria, becoming an extension of the Hezbollah threat in Lebanon.

Making the most of a lull in inclement weather, Israel chose to inform Moscow of its intentions only shortly before striking as required in the cooperation agreements between the countries.

The strike itself could be considered a message to Moscow on Israel's part that the campaign against Iran on Syrian soil will carry on.

Further stoking Jerusalem's concerns, Hezbollah mouthpiece Al Akhbar daily reported last Wednesday that Moscow will shift its policy in Syria and it will be deploying military advisors to patrol the Syrian port of Latakia, another target of repeated Israeli strikes in recent months

For Tehran, Sunday's strike is a sign that despite Washington's weakness against them — even after attacking U.S. targets in Syria and Iraq — Israel is different. It will not fold, not even in the face of Russian pressures.

We will now have to wait for an official response from the Russians or any other action on the ground. As far as Israel is concerned, it has no intention to make any policy changes.