During the armed militant takeover of the Seattle Police Department's East Precinct after the death of George Floyd to form the Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone in 2020, Seattle officials drafted legislation to transfer the East Precinct to a local Black Lives Matter activist group, according to documents recently obtained by The Seattle Times.

Three memos and a draft resolution about transferring the East Precinct were sent to former Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan from Calvin Goings, the director of the city's Department of Finance and Administrative Services (FAS). In an email on June 8, 2020—the same day SPD evacuated the precinct, leaving the community in danger.

In the draft resolution, Mayor Durkan's office discussed transferring the multi-million dollar property to Black Lives Matter Seattle-King County (BLMSKC), which was to take effect July 1, 2020. According to The Seattle Times, Durkan's office discussed the option of turning the East Precinct into a hub for public health and community care.

"Good afternoon Mayor, please see the attached documents as requested. Please let me know if you have any questions or concerns," Goings wrote throughout the height of clashes between anti-police protesters and SPD at violent demonstrations throughout the city.

WATCH: KID ROCK SAYS 'F*CK YOU' TO STADIUMS MANDATING MASKS

WATCH: KID ROCK SAYS 'F*CK YOU' TO STADIUMS MANDATING MASKS

According to The Seattle Times, Durkan chose not to transfer the East Precinct to Black Lives Matter Seattle-King County when they refused the suggestion and explained that they supported the precinct being returned to the Seattle Police Department.

Rev. Harriett Walden, a community leader who spoke out in favor of police returning to the building, told Seattle Times that she was unaware that the city wanted to transfer the police precinct to BLMKC. Walden announced that the community needed to honor Sam Smith, the first Black member elected to Seattle City Council, who backed the establishment of the East Precinct in 1986.

According to Casey Sixkiller, former Deputy Mayor of Seattle, the proposed transferring of SPD's East Precinct to Black Lives Matter was not a coordinated effort between Durkan's office and the anti-police activists despite taking place on the same day that SPD evacuated the precinct.

GOP QUIET ON TRUMP PROMISING PARDONS TO THOSE IN JAIL FOR JANUARY 6

GOP QUIET ON TRUMP PROMISING PARDONS TO THOSE IN JAIL FOR JANUARY 6

"It was a coincidence that the draft resolution was shared on the same afternoon the precinct was abandoned," Sixkiller told Seattle Times.

Sgt. Randy Huserik of the Seattle Police Department announced that the department was not aware of the city's proposed transfer of the East Precinct to BLM.

"We were not aware of any plans on the city's part to permanently leave the precinct, or any plans to share the space with the community," Sgt. Huserik told The Seattle Times.