When do you take opiates? With friends at parties or generally alone? "You do coke to get a party going. Opiate painkillers, you take for the euphoria, to submerge yourself in an ocean of goodness, to get into your own zone, to a life that's not real. It takes you away from all the bad things in the world. It also lasts longer than any other drug. Cocaine is a few minutes and that's it. Opiates are strong. Their euphoria isn't psychedelic, it's very real. It's just sitting around, or not doing anything at all, or walking around the streets, simply feeling free, being yourself. I remember sitting on the sofa during lockdown with my friends, putting a patch on my leg or my arm and giving myself a couple of days of doing nothing, just gazing at Netflix."

Do you know anyone who became addicted legally? "A friend of mine had a traffic accident when he was seventeen and he was prescribed Percocet and became seriously addicted to it. He ended up in Malkishua (Addiction Treatment Center). He suffered withdrawal symptoms... he was in pain and he really did need to take these pills, but he didn't know they were addictive. No one explained to him that if you become addicted to these painkillers, you'll end up worse off than people doing coke, psychedelic drugs or crystal meth. When you become addicted to Percocet, you can't get through to the person. It's the worse addiction there is. Like heroin."

How has the pandemic affected opioid use? "From my fieldwork, I see at least a 50-60% increase in the use of opioid painkillers among teenagers. It's become very easy to obtain through the Telegram app. Because COVID has brought with it a lot of emotional difficulties, in relationships with friends and parents, isolation, depression and loneliness, some teenagers see taking these substances as a means of easing emotional pain. If a teenage girl feels that, during the pandemic, she's lost her social circle, that others are meeting up and she's not - and it doesn't matter if it's true or not – she'll sit at home and develop all sorts of self-image issues and her feeling of self-worth which may manifest themselves in the form of eating disorders or anxiety. We see also increased use among children considered normative, good and stable kids, with two functional, working parents. These aren't kids from troubled backgrounds. These are kids who, before the pandemic, suffered no significant functional problems."

"When I was sixteen, I tried Percocet for the first time. A friend of mine from the neighborhood introduced me to it and it made me feel good immediately. I had just had an accident on my electric bike and I needed a metal implant. My arm really hurt a lot and I also wanted some more of the euphoria that I'd already tasted… so I'd tell the doctor that I was in pain from the metal implant and he'd automatically give me a prescription for 5mg Percocet. And it continued. I carried on claiming I was in pain. I played every trick in the book just to carry on getting the prescription and he even increased the dosage. I eventually went up to 10mg – the strongest dosage there is. I was taking ninety pills a month – which is a lot!"

Where did the need to block out your feelings come from? "When I first got to Villa Balance, nearly two months ago, I just thought I'd need to do the physical withdrawal and that would be it. As time goes on, I see that, although the physical withdrawal and rehabilitation are very hard, that's the easy part. Home was very problematic; my parents got divorced. The home disintegrated - my mother and five siblings all broke down. Everyone was crying all day long. I couldn’t be sad about the divorce. It broke me. It had always been very hard. There was never any physical violence, but my parents argued all the time and there were always rows at home. I think this was the main thing that drove me to use drugs... the painkillers gave me what I didn't have at home – some peace and quiet."

"Teenagers don't see this stuff as drugs," says Ilan (like the youngsters interviewed for this article, speaking under an assumed name) who, working in the educational system, has seen opioid abuse up close. Echoing what we've been hearing from the teenagers, Ilan tells us: "This is something we haven't seen before. It's new. The kids are getting the drugs from Telegram or prescriptions from their parents, and they're teaching one another what to say to the doctor to get a prescription on their own. As young people's problems have increased during the pandemic, prescriptions are being written quite freely. Teenagers are ingenious enough to do their homework about exactly what they need to know and precisely what to say exactly to the doctor to get the drugs."