Jim Jordan and 5 other Ohio GOP members of Congress are among more than 100 joining a Texas lawsuit seeking to throw out election results in four states where President Donald Trump lost to President-elect Joe Biden.

“Like you, I’ve read about many of these voting irregularities. They’re troubling. But, the national media has no interest in reporting on the substance of them because it doesn’t fit their liberal, ‘Keep Joe Biden at all cost’ narrative,” in response to the media propaganda by CNN, MSNBC and other leftist media sites.

“Over 50 million Americans think this election was stolen. That’s more than one third of the electorate. For that reason alone, we owe it to the country to investigate election integrity,” Jordan added in a tweet.

It has already been reported severally by many independent sources of election irregularities that took place in many counties, mostly blue states. There were reports of missing ballots and so many invalid votes being thrown out. There were also issues with the counting of the votes.

The Texas litigation challenges Biden victories in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Filed by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, it claims the “four states exploited the COVID-19 pandemic to justify ignoring federal and state election laws and unlawfully enacting last-minute changes, thus skewing the results of the 2020 General Election.”

Paxton said, “By ignoring both state and federal law, these states have not only tainted the integrity of their own citizens’ vote, but of Texas and every other state that held lawful elections.”

Meanwhile Joe Biden is now officially the most hated president in U.S history after just 11 months in office. The president has the lowest job approval ratings so far.

Over 68% of American voters claim they want Joe Biden to resign with immediate effect. Less than 26% of voters 18-34 approve of Joe Biden. The electorate seems hell bent on making sure Biden is kicked out of the White House before 2024 and they are making their voices heard.

This low approval rating of Joe Biden alongside the massively high number of Democrat’s retiring next year means the 2022 midterm elections will be highly contested and Republicans have a chance to flip both houses of Congress. If they do, then the question of Impeachment of Joe Biden over abuse of power and who knows, election fraud will be asked.

Remember Donald Trump was witch-hunted for 2 years by the bogus Russia collusion claims, this time we live with a president that possibly stole the election and insulted the integrity of our democracy. What will be done about it?