The final criminal case against former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo was dropped by the District Attorney’s office on Monday.

Cuomo was found to have sexually harassed multiple women, AG Letitia James announced in August after a 4-month investigation into the accusations.

The Oswego County DA’s office said there was no sufficient legal basis to bring criminal charges against Cuomo in response to allegations of sexual misconduct brought by Virginia Limmiatis.

“After a thorough review of the available evidence and applicable law, the Oswego County District Attorney’s Office has concluded that there is not a sufficient legal basis to bring criminal charges against former-Governor Andrew Cuomo based upon the allegations of unwanted physical contact made by Virginia Limmiatis,” District Attorney Gregory Oakes said Monday.



The fifth and final criminal case opened against former Gov. Andrew Cuomo stemming from a state investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct has closed, the district attorney’s office confirmed, seemingly ending any chances the disgraced governor might face charges in the fallout. Oakes’ team had been investigating claims made by Virginia Limmiatis, who alleged the governor inappropriately touched her at a 2017 conservation event at Salman River. Limmiatis was one of several women named in the attorney general’s bombshell report in which independent investigators corroborated allegations the governor acted inappropriately. In his statement, the Oswego district attorney said his decision not to proceed with criminal charges should not cast doubt on “the character or credibility of Ms. Limmiatis.” “After watching her prior testimony and talking with her, I found her to be reliable and reasonable, seemingly motivated only by an earnest desire to do the right thing, and she was plainly upset by her interaction with then Governor Cuomo as she expressed immediately to friends and family,” Oakes said. Limmiatis has been the target of Cuomo’s legal team since the release of the report in August 2021, who have long demanded the attorney general revise portions of the document to include photos of him alongside Limmiatis at the 2017 event.

Last month the Manhattan District Attorney’s office closed its investigation into former New York Governor Cuomo’s handling of nursing home deaths.

Cuomo killed thousands of elderly residents in nursing homes with his edict forcing Covid infected individuals back into the elderly care facilities.

Not only did Cuomo kill thousands of elderly, he covered up the data and hid it from the feds.

All criminal cases against Cuomo have now been dropped.

Nothing to see here, move along.