STOCKTON, CA – A firefighter lost his life while battling a dumpster fire, not because the fire got out of control, but because someone started shooting, striking and killing the firefighter.

Stockton Fire Department responded to a dumpster fire near Aurora and Washington Streets on January 31st just before 5 am. As firefighters worked to extinguish the blaze, an unidentified 67-year-old man emerged and fired on the group.

One of the firefighters, Captain Max Fortuna, was struck by the gunfire. Captain Fortuna was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injures. Captain Fortuna leaves behind a wife and two adult children.

The Stockton Police Department responded to the scene and apprehended the alleged shooter and recovered a gun.

At this time, Joe Silva, the department’s spokesman, does not have any idea what would have caused the shooting. Silva said:

“We don’t have a motive. We don’t know if they knew each other or not.”

Stockton Fire Chief Rick Edwards called the shooting death of Captain Fortuna his “worst nightmare.” He issued a statement concerning the death which read:

“I am devastated to report that Veteran Fire Captain Max Fortuna has succumbed to his injuries.

“Captain Fortuna served the City of Stockton for 21 years and leaves behind a wife and two grown children. I ask you to keep Captain Fortuna’s family and the Stockton Fire Department family in your thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.”

Mario Gardea, the president for the Stockton Professional Firefighters Union said:

“Max was a firefighter who showed up every day and never complained about being on the job. I don’t really know too many other firefighters who enjoy the job as much as him.”

As word spread of Captain Fortuna’s death, thousands took to Facebook to offer their condolences:

“My deepest condolences go to his family and loved ones and the firefighters who work hard to see we are all safe. May God bless you all with comfort and strength through this difficult time. God bless you Always” -Andrea Suarez-Hernandez

“Our condolences to his family, to his colleagues, and to anyone who’s life he saved over his many years as a First Responder. The community mourns the loss of a hero” -Mimi Duzenski

“Rest Easy Capt. We’ll hold the line, see you on the TOP FLOOR. JOHN 15:13 To my Brothers and Sisters on SFD, my thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult time. Today I will knell for him tomorrow I will LIVE for him.” -Rick Campos

“Thank you for your service Sir. Rest In Peace. My condolences to his family including his fire family” -Kimberly Salazar

“So very heartbreaking my sincere condolences to the family of Captain Max Fortuna saying prayers for your family, his Stockton fire family and all those that risk their lives every day…Rest in Peace.” -Maren Quigley Ecoffery

The man whom the police suspect is responsible has been taken into custody after an hours-long standoff. Deputies in Robertson County are in shock after finding one of their deputies, Savanna Puckett, dead in her home after she failed to report to work. When deputies arrived at her house in the 5100 block of Highway 41 to check on her, they found the home engulfed in flames. After the fire department extinguished the flames, they notified deputies that they had located Puckett deceased with a gunshot wound inside her house. At this time, police have not announced whether Puckett was killed by the gunshot or as a result of the fire. Robertson County Sheriff Michael Van Dyke said: “Words cannot express the sadness and grief that Savanna’s family and her sheriff’s office family are facing right now. This is a tragedy that we are processing minute by minute. Please keep Savanna, her family, and the sheriff’s office in your thoughts and prayers.” As members of the Robertson County Sheriff’s Office tried to wrap their minds about what had happened, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation got to work in trying to figure out who might have killed her. Without releasing how or why, authorities began focusing their investigation on an unidentified man in Smyrna, Tennessee. Police learned of the man’s location and moved in with a SWAT team to search the residence. They moved in before 6 am on the 24th and tried for hours to get the man out of the residence. It was not until approximately 11:30 before they were able to get the man outside of the home and taken into custody. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation released the following tweet after the arrest: “MORE DETAILS: The man arrested in Smyrna this morning was wanted by law enforcement in connection to the death of a Robertson County deputy this weekend. “The investigation remains active and ongoing, and we’ll provide more details as soon as we’re able to do so.” Puckett started working for the Robertson County Sheriff’s Office as a corrections deputy in 2017 at just 18 years old. Puckett remained in that role until she successfully graduated from the Walter State Law Enforcement Academy and transferred to their patrol division in 2020. A statement from the Robertson County Sheriff’s Office speaks to the type of person she was: “Savanna was the one who always showed up early to her shift with a smile on her face. She was a mother hen to us all, and frequently cooked meals and baked goodies for her shift. She was tough, courageous, kind, compassionate, and had an infectious personality that will always be remembered.” At this time, police are not releasing any type of motive as to why Puckett was killed nor what her relationship may have been with the person taken into custody. The Sheriff’s Office will release funeral details for the fallen deputy once they have been finalized. The loss of this deputy comes on the heels of the New York Police Department officer who was shot and killed while responding to a domestic disturbance. A Harris County Constable deputy was shot and killed on January 23rd while conducting a traffic stop. And a Metropolitan Police Officer in Washington, DC was shot in the line of duty after confronting a man who was acting strangely on the street. Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!