The editorial comments in this piece are brought to you by a former chief of police and current staff writer for Law Enforcement Today.

SEATTLE, WA- In a move that will come as a surprise to nobody, the former feckless mayor of Seattle, Jenny Durkan, actually considered abandoning a police precinct and basically handing it over to Black Lives Matter in June 2020, the Seattle Times reports, citing newly released documents.

The Blaze is reporting that officials in Seattle had considered turning over the East Precinct building abandoned by Seattle police officers in the midst of violent protests that month, which occurred in the wake of the George Floyd overdose death while in police custody in Minneapolis.

The Times is reporting that according to the documents they reviewed, Durkan’s administration drafted legislation which would have transferred the multi-million dollar over to Black Lives Matter Seattle-King County.

On June 8, 2020, at around the same time police were abandoning the building as it was being overrun by violent riots, Calvin Goings, director of the city’s Department of Finance and Administrative Services emailed three memos and a draft resolution to Durkan.

Discussions between Durkan’s office and the Seattle BLM chapter involved the city turning the building over, which the radical organization would ostensibly turn into a center for public health and community care.

“Good Afternoon mayor, please see the attached documents as requested. Please let me know if you have any questions or concerns,” Goings wrote, according to the Times.

The paper added that text messages which were exchanged among key decision-makers—including Durkan and her emergency services leaders, the fire and police chiefs—have mysteriously gone missing.

The Times was able to get copies of the East Precinct memos in January through a records request, while noting that they’re the only details Seattle City Hall has publicly disclosed about the possible building transfer to BLM. According to the paper, Durkan attempted to distance herself from the scheme, which never happened and police were able to reoccupy the building by July 1, 2020.

The scheme was abandoned by Durkan after “the very preliminary work by [the city’s Department of Finance and Administrative Services] and the realities of policing confirmed it was neither feasible nor in the best interest of public safety,” an email from then Durkan spokeswoman Chelsea Kellogg said, the Times reported.

According to the paper, police officials were never part of the conversation about abandoning the precinct, with Seattle PD spokesman Sgt. Randy Huserik telling them via email that “we were not aware of any plans on the city’s part to permanently leave the precinct, or any plans to share the space with the community.”

According to The Hill, Kellogg added that BLM ultimately supported police returning to the East Precinct building.

Information about the potential transfer was made public by two sources, one a deposition by former Deputy Mayor Casey Sixkiller, and a book by former Seattle Police Chief Carmen Best.

Durkan’s representatives attempted to downplay the transfer as being “seriously pursued,” and said the idea emanated from a city council member and letters from activists, the Times reported.

Kellogg also disputed the fact that Durkan had requested the resolution.

“Interesting that you assume and state that the Mayor asked for a draft resolution on this property when that is not how the process works,” Kellogg told the Times. “FAS oversees both city-owned property and many real estate deals.”

“…there was no plan to transfer the East Precinct and from the time SPD made the decision to temporarily evacuate the precinct for safety reasons, it always planned to return.”

Kellogg’s statement, however, was contradicted by FAS spokeswoman Melissa Mixon, who told the Times that Durkan’s administration oversaw the work.

“The Durkan administration directed FAS—in its capacity as the city’s real estate and facility management agency—to outline the process to transfer the East Precinct to BLMSKC [Black Lives Matter Seattle-King County],” Mixon said.

Moreover, in their piece, the Times quoted from the transfer resolution:

“The City transfers permanent use/ownership of…the East Precinct to Black Lives Matter Seattle-King County, effective July 1, 2020. The City of Seattle agrees to vacate the property and remove all law-enforcement materials and police related facilities…”

The Hill said they reached out to BLMSKC, Kellogg and the Seattle PD for comment however none was received by the publication’s deadline.

The Times however also noted that Durkan’s office had expressed great interest in a transfer even prior to the precinct being abandoned, noting that a BLM letter dated June 15—and circulated by mayoral staffers—demanded the transfer and offered to kick in millions of dollars to repurpose the building, the Blaze reported.

“We demand an active, responsive resource and tool that works for us, not one simply handed off for political expediency,” the letter said, according to the Times, while adding that “one of our goals in reclaiming the East Precinct for this use is to quiet the physical space and surroundings. Protesters need a reprieve. They need to know that demands have been met.”

The East Precinct building was located in what rioters referred to as an “autonomous zone,” soon dubbed CHOP (Capitol Hill Organized Protest) and CHAZ (Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone), where the far-left activists were allowed to live for several weeks.

Durkan issued a statement after she let the lawless occupation of part of Seattle take place, claiming that “the Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone #CHAZ is not a lawless wasteland of anarchist insurrection—it is a peaceful expression of our community’s collective grieve and their desire to build a better world,” and in fact referred to the occupation at one point of being “a summer of love.”

Of course as expected, the area devolved into a third-world anarchy, where crime ran rampant with rapes and robberies occurring within the zone and officers unable to respond. It only took shootings in the area on back-to-back nights—one fatal—for Durkan to grow a set and put an end to the madness.

On June 22, 2020, Durkan announced police would be retaking the East Precinct building, which was finally accomplished on July 1.

In case you missed it, below is a story about the spate of retail theft in Seattle which has Target rethinking doing business there.

SEATTLE, WA – A Target in downtown Seattle is having a hard time making a profit while paying its employees. The reason why is not a lack of business, but rather the continued retail thefts that are occurring daily.

Jason Rantz, from the Jason Rantz Show, reports that he looked into the number of thefts that have been occurring at the local store over the last year.

Rantz alleged that he asked one of the employees if the theft was that bad and he was told that something is stolen about every ten minutes.

Rantz stood by to check out the situation for himself and noted that he observed Target employees confront two separate criminals within 12 minutes after they had allegedly stolen items. He Tweeted:

“Within 12 minutes of stepping foot into the Downtown Seattle Target, I saw security confront two shoplifters.

“One staff member told me this happens about every ten minutes in the store. The shelves are empty because of the shoplifting.

To combat some of the thefts that have been occurring, Target has stationed security guards at each of the entrances and exits of the building. The hope is that the presence of security will deter those that are considering stealing items.

Rantz stayed inside the store for a few hours and reported on some instances where he believed retail thefts had occurred. The first one he noted was around 11:45 am when he saw a man get off of an elevator with household cleaners in his hands.

Rantz claimed that the items in the man’s hands were stolen as the only way to check out would have been on a different floor. The man walked in the direction of an off-duty Seattle Police Officer who was working security and stopped.

The man dropped one item which prompted the off-duty officer to order him to turn over anything else that was stolen. Despite collecting a majority of the items, Rantz alleges that the criminal was still able to escape with at least one stolen item.

The next instance occurred just before noon when Rantz saw a staff member confront a woman who was accused of stealing. He said that the security guard ordered the woman to remove several items of stolen clothing out of her bag while they watched.

After security was satisfied that they had removed all of the stolen merchandise, she was escorted out of the store. Rantz said, despite her being allowed to leave, that the woman hurled insults at the staff during the entire event.

To help combat some of the thefts that are occurring in the store, Target has resorted to only selling high-end items online. Items such as PlayStations or Xbox’s are not available unless the product is paid in full online.

A sign that announces this is placed in the area where stores in other states have them on display:

“For the safety of our guests, the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X consoles are only available for purchase on Target.com and Target App via Order pickup and Drive Up.”

Rantz said although it is clear the stores throughout Seattle are victims of organized crimes as seen in other large cities, he also believes that the homeless population in the area are as much to blame. He said:

“But Target and other stores in the downtown core of Seattle are dying via death by a thousand homeless-induced cuts.”

Rantz noted that the current Seattle City Attorney, Ann Davison, ran on a political platform of prosecuting these types of crimes, but is having difficulty following through. Rantz does not seem to blame her, but rather said that her position is difficult with the large number of thefts occurring and too few police to make arrests.

According to reports, Davison held a strong 58 percent to 41 percent lead in the race for Seattle city attorney, with returns showing voters rejecting the brash language of her police abolitionist opponent, Nicole Thomas-Kennedy, in favor of Davison’s law-and-order stance. Reports also stated that no race in the elections on November 2nd was more fraught with the potential for unpredictable consequences than the race for Seattle’s official lawyer, who traditionally has prosecuted minor crimes and provided legal advice and defense for the city and its employees, including police. Davidson believes that the City Attorney’s Office is not for setting policy or a “place for radical agenda.” She said that it is a place to provide impartial advice to those elected to create policy and to maintain laws so there is public safety. Thomas-Kennedy has been a public defender and is a self-described abolitionist who wanted to reimagine the City Attorney’s Office and how it prosecutes offenders. Davison will lead the Office of the Seattle City Attorney, also known as the Law Department, for a four-year term. The department operates with more than 100 attorneys. It is the third largest public law office in the state and one of the largest in the city. The department is divided into three divisions: Criminal, civil, and administration. The criminal division prosecutes misdemeanors, gross misdemeanors and traffic infractions. The civil division represents the city of Seattle in lawsuits as well as advising officials in program development, projects, policies, and legislation. The administration division provides services for the office, including budgeting and human resources. Local police chief Carmen Best, whose officers were ejected from the CHAZ, retired early after the city council decided to defund the police by 50 percent, beginning with staff cuts in 2020. When asked if she was retiring because of the protests or a pay cut, Best said: “This is not about the money and it certainly isn’t about the demonstrators. Be real, I have a lot thicker skin than that. It really is about the overarching lack of respect for the officers, the men, and women who work so hard day in and day out. And honestly, the idea of letting — after we worked so incredibly hard to make sure our department was diverse, that reflected the community we serve to just turn that all on a dime and hack it off without having a plan in place to move forward is highly distressful for me. It goes against my principles and my convictions, and I really couldn’t do it.” As Davison pulled ahead to win the election, Seattle Police Department (SPD) community advisory Chair Victoria Beach said that basic accountability is overdue. When referring to Thomas-Kennedy, Beach said: “She’s an anarchist, big time. We’re tired, no more. We want out city back.” “It is so humbling, so heart-warming. I look forward to doing the work in a way that really does show exactly what I said in the campaign, it really does take the possibilities or blending those together, understanding peoples perspectives because everyone’s perspective is valid.” Davison said there are too many people from every walk of life, who feel unsafe in Seattle with random attacks, drug proliferation, getting their cars broken into, or businesses getting shoplifted. She said she wants a handle on that street crime and homeless camps whether it’s by prosecution or compassion. “There is a way to have a balanced approach that we are providing a way to intervene with someone and to make sure we are centering victims of crime and collectively bringing together what is public safety in our city.”

 Editor note: In 2020, we saw a nationwide push to “defund the police”. While we all stood here shaking our heads wondering if these people were serious… they cut billions of dollars in funding for police officers. And as a result, crime has skyrocketed – all while the same politicians who said “you don’t need guns, the government will protect you” continued their attacks on both our police officers and our Second Amendment rights. Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost. Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!