WASHINGTON – President Joe Biden will set a national goal Wednesday of cutting the number of cancer deaths in half over the next 25 years as part of a government initiative that will focus on improving cancer treatment and prevention.

Biden, who has made “ending cancer as we know it” a priority for his administration, is relaunching the “Cancer Moonshot” initiative that he led during his final year as vice president under Barack Obama.

Some 600,000 Americans die of cancer every year, but the Biden administration believes that progress in therapeutics, diagnostics and other scientific advances in the five years since the Obama moonshot initiative have made it possible to set even more ambitious goals.

The new initiative, which Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will formally announce during an event at the White House, will include the creation of a White House Cancer Cabinet and mobilize multiple government departments and agencies to set goals for improving cancer detection and prevention.

More: Fact check: False claim that cancer has spiked as a result of COVID-19 vaccines

More: Biden touched by Kosovo's medal for late son Beau

Senior administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Biden and first lady Jill Biden also will call for improved access to cancer screenings and early detection. Regular cancer screenings can catch the disease early when treatment is more effective, yet Americans have missed more than 9.5 million cancer screenings as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The administration’s renewed push will include at-home screenings, especially for colon cancer and the HPV virus that causes cervical, neck and other cancers, as well as mobile screenings in communities without easy access to a clinic.

The White House also will host a Cancer Moonshot Summit to bring together biopharmaceutical companies, patient organizations, research institutions and healthcare communities to highlight innovations and progress toward improving cancer treatment and prevention. A date for the summit has not been announced.

More: 3.5 million cancer deaths prevented in recent decades, but disparities are 'alarming,' report says

More: 50 years after the US declared war against cancer, the fight continues. These are the 10 biggest victories.

For Biden, the fight against cancer is personal. His son, Beau, died of brain cancer in 2015 at age 46.

The next year, Obama called on Biden during his State of the Union address to lead the “Cancer Moonshot” during the final year of his administration, with the goal of making 10 years of progress toward a cure in five years.

The 21st Century Cures Act, a major health-care bill that Obama signed into law just weeks before he left office, authorized $1.8 billion in funding for the program over seven years to accelerate progress in cancer prevention and screening as well as research to improve the care of cancer patients.

More: Late-stage colon cancer showing up in more younger adults. 'Get screened,' doctor urges

More: Lawmakers pen letter to CDC to address decline in breast cancer screenings due to COVID

Biden continued his crusade against cancer after he left the vice president. He started the nonprofit Biden Cancer Initiative in 2017 to speed up research on the disease. The program ceased operations two years later after Biden announced he would run for president.

As president, Biden hosted a bipartisan meeting at the White House last March with members of the House and Senate to focus on cancer research.

“We’re on the cusp of some real breakthroughs across the board on cancer,” he said, stressing that significant strides can be made in fighting cancer, Alzheimer’s and other diseases by taking a slightly different approach.

Jill Biden also has been an advocate for cancer education and prevention since 1993, when four of her friends were diagnosed with breast cancer. She later launched the Biden Breast Health Initiative to educate Delaware high school girls about the importance of cancer prevention.

Michael Collins covers the White House. Follow him on Twitter @mcollinsNEWS.

More: Ending cancer as we know it? National Cancer Institute Director Ned Sharpless lays out his vision

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Biden to relaunch 'Cancer Moonshot' to improve treatment, prevention