The following contains editorial content which is the opinion of the writer.

WILMINGTON, DE- Perhaps the wheels are starting to come off the Biden crime family. According to Breitbart, a grand jury was convened back in May 2019 as a result of a criminal investigation into Hunter Biden, according to a confidential subpoena served to JP Morgan Chase Bank.

Breitbart notes that the subpoena wasn’t only focused on Hunter but also on Joe Biden’s brother James, seeking his bank records, the first time another member of the Biden family has been identified in connection with the investigation.

According to the document obtained by Breitbart, it specifically seeks information on transactions between JPMorgan Chase Bank, referred to in the document as the “correspondent bank,” and the Bank of China, referred to in the document as the “originating or beneficiary bank.”

The investigation reveals that while Joe Biden was launching his presidential campaign that spring, federal prosecutors were busy impaneling a grand jury and seeking bank records related to Hunter and James Biden, plus two of their business associates, Devon Archer and Eric Schwerin.

The issuance of subpoenas in a probe of Hunter Biden isn’t necessarily new news, as this has been previously reported, however Breitbart notes “the level of detail this document contains has never been reported.”

According to the document, dated May 20, 2019, it demands JPMorgan Chase appear in U.S. District Court in Delaware. “YOU ARE COMMANDED to appear in this United States district court at the time, date, and place to testify before the court’s grand jury,” the document—a subpoena to JPMorgan Chae Bank’s subpoena processing office based in Indianapolis—read. “When you arrive, you must remain at the court until a judge or a court officer allows you to leave.”

The location where JPMorgan Chase officials were compelled to appear was at the J. Caleb Boggs Federal Building in Wilmington, Delaware, and ordered a response by June 25, 2019.

“You must also bring with you the following documents, electronically stored information, or objects” the document reads, continuing to point to “Attachment A,” which lists which items the bank needed to provide to the court.

“Attachment A” instructs what the bank’s compliance officials were required to provide:

“PRODUCE THE FOLLOWING: All records, documents, and accounts pertaining to all financial/banking transactions with the following known name(s), and/or accounts. However, when conducting your search, please do not limit your scope to only the known account(s) listed below; unknown, associated, signatory, or closed accounts are also requested,” Breitbart said.

Those who were specifically named by the subpoena are “Robert Hunter Biden, James Biden, Devon Archer, and Eric Schwerin.”

In addition, the subpoena identifies a number of business names or identities:

Owasco, Skaneateles, RSP Holdings, RSP Investments, RTSP II Alpha, RTSP II Bravo, Seneca Global Advisors, Aqaba International, Rosemont Seneca, Burisma Holdings, Bohai Harvest RST Shanghai Equity, Robinson Walker, Hudson West, European Energy and Infras Group Limited, Bladen Enterprises Limited…in other words, a who’s who—or what’s what—of Hunter Biden affiliated business entities…along with James Biden.

The document warns multiple times: “Do not disclose the existence of this subpoena to the individual or any third party.”

Breitbart reports that there was an accompanying letter from David C. Weiss, U.S. Attorney for the District of Delaware, to JPMorgan Chase Bank officials specifies that federal law “makes it a federal crime for ‘an officer of a financial institut9ion’ to notify either ‘directly or indirectly…(A) a customer of that financial institution whose records are sought by a grand jury subpoena; or (B) any other person named in that subpoena about the existence or contents of that subpoena or information that has been furnished to the grand jury in response to that subpoena [.]’”

The fact that Hunter Biden was under federal investigation is nothing new…he actually revealed as much in a statement in December 2020, just following that November’s general election, that he was under investigation for possible tax fraud. Both Fox News and CNN reported at the time that an investigation was initiated in 2018, probing whether Hunter and his business associates had violated tax and money laundering laws.

CNN meanwhile reported at the time that the investigation was focused on Hunter’s business dealings in China and other countries and transactions with “people who posed counterintelligence concerns.”

The investigation was paused as the presidential race heated up, however is believed to have resumed after the results of the election were known.

Politico reported in July 2021 that the investigation was paused by Weiss in the midst of the presidential election in order to not “alert the public to the existence of the case in the middle of a presidential election.” That decision basically put a pause on the issuance of search warrants or subpoenas.

Fox News reported in March 2021 that the federal investigation into Hunter Biden’s “tax affairs” was moving forward, and that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Delaware had “not heard from the White House” at the time.

In April 2021, Hunter Biden, in a CBS interview said his lawyers were not working on a plea deal in the case, saying, “I am absolutely certain that what we’re doing is being completely cooperative with whoever is asking from any authority whatsoever.”

The documents revealing the Biden investigation were first obtained by former White House official Garrett Ziegler, a former associate director in Pater Navarro’s Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy in the White House, who served between 2019-2021, who provided it to Breitbart.

After leaving the White House, Ziegler established Marco Polo, a nonprofit research group which exposes “corruption and blackmail,” and has been conducting a forensic review combined with extra independent investigation into Hunter Biden’s laptop, Breitbart said.

“This wide-ranging grand jury subpoena suggests that Joe’s son and brother received transfers from an account with the Bank of China. The question that remains is why Bill Barr directly intervened to ensure that the U.S. Attorney in Delaware’s investigation into Joe’s family was kept from the public for over 17 months until after the election, as previous reporting has confirmed. David Weiss and Bill Barr—or someone with a conscience inside the Justice Department—should answer that question for the American people,” Ziegler said in a statement to Breitbart News.

The Politico piece addressed Weiss not wanting the story to interfere with the 2020 presidential election, while according to a piece in the Wall Street Journal in December 2020, Barr apparently did the same.

Breitbart notes that it isn’t known if JPMorgan Chase Bank cooperated with the subpoena. Given the fact that the bank’s outside counsel firm, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP hired former Obama-Biden Attorney General Loretta Lynch just after receiving the subpoena.

While it is unknown if Lynch was involved in this specific matter, she has worked on similar matters involving JPMorgan Chae Bank compliance issues. In other words, the swamp is deep.

Breitbart says it isn’t currently clear where the criminal investigation currently stands.

For more on investigations involving the Biden crime family, we invite you to:

The following contains editorial content written by a retired Chief of Police and current staff writer for Law Enforcement Today.

WASHINGTON, DC- Substitute the last name Trump for Biden and it would be leading every nightly newscast, CNN and MSNBC opinion show and Sunday news gabfests for weeks on end. However, since the last name is Biden, all you hear are crickets.

The Washington Free Beacon reports that emails obtained from Hunter Biden’s laptop have revealed his deep involvement in setting up a consulting deal between Burisma, a corrupt Ukrainian energy company where he served on the board, and two Democratic consultants who are currently under investigation for violating foreign lobbying laws.

The outlet reports that Biden and colleagues at Rosemont Seneca, a private equity firm helped Burisma hire a company called Blue Star Strategies, owned by two former Clinton administration officials Sally Painter and Karen Tramontano.

The emails reveal that Hunter Biden was a lot more involved than previously known in arranging Blue Star’s consulting relationship with Burisma.

Neither Hunter Biden, who has become a multi-millionaire despite having little practical experience at anything besides snorting cocaine off the buttocks of hookers, nor Blue Star registered their work under the Lobbying Disclosure Act or the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA).

The fact federal prosecutors started looking into Blue Star’s work for Burisma can possibly be explained by Biden’s work in facilitating the arrangement.

Republicans have been focusing on Biden’s work for Burisma, one of Ukraine’s largest producers of natural gas, as well as with a number of Chinese companies. Investigators are also looking at Hunter Biden’s tax dealings and foreign business affairs.

According to Politico, federal prosecutors in Delaware who are looking into Biden’s taxes started to investigate whether Blue Star had violated foreign agent laws in failing to disclose its work with Burisma.

Politico said both Biden and the Blue Star executives met with U.S. government officials to advocate on behalf of Burisma, congressional testimony told us. In addition, Hunter Biden met with Painter in November 2015 to discuss her ability to conduct work on behalf of Burisma.

As previously reported in Law Enforcement Today, both Biden as well as his partner Devon Archer, a former business partner with John Kerry’s stepson Christopher Heinz at Rosemont, both served on the board of directors at Burisma, having been appointed in May 2014.

As part of their board duties, they were to find investment projects for Burisma in the United States and Europe, boosting the company’s reputation in the process. Biden and Archer each received a cool $80,000 a month to serve on Burisma’s board.

Burisma hired Blue Star in late 2015 to deal with bribery investigations into Burisma’s owner, Mykola Zlochevsky, former minister of ecology and natural resources. Zlochevsky was being investigated at the time by the United Kingdom for his part in paying bribes to secure drilling contracts in Ukraine.

On November 2, 2015, Burisma executive Vadym Pozharskyi emailed Biden as well as his partners with a list of “deliverables” he hoped Blue Star could deliver to Burisma.

Among his requests was for Blue Star to arrange for U.S. officials to express support for Zlochevsky, with the “ultimate purpose” being to shut down cases against Zlochevsky in Ukraine.

Thereafter on November 5, 2015, Biden responded to Pozharskyi’s email, telling him he believed Painter and Tramontano would be able to deliver on the project, and urged Burisma to sign a contract with Blue Star.

“You should go ahead and sign. Looking forward to getting started on this,” Biden wrote.

He had served with Painter on the board of the Truman National Security Project, a prominent national security think tank. Having the last name Biden appears to pay off handsomely.

Thereafter, Biden and another Rosemont Seneca partner, yet another former Clinton administration official named Eric Schwerin, spoke with Painter on November 11, 2015, after he also had advised Pozharskyi to sign the deal. He said he and Biden planned to meet with Painter the following week in order to discuss meetings she had already conducted on Burisma’s behalf.

On November 18, 2015, Pozharskyi asked Biden and his associates to forward a consulting contract to Blue Star in order to have the firm sign it. He promised a $60,000 retainer would be wired to Blue Star later that same day.

Just under a week later, November 23, 2015, a Blue Star associate sent an email to Biden, Painter and Pozharskyi in which he wanted to arrange a conference call to discuss the “action plan” for Burisma.

Blue Star later arranged for Burisma to form a partnership with the Atlantic Council, a prominent foreign policy think tank. Tramontano had served previously on the council’s board of directors, with Painter joining the think tank’s board in April 2017.

The Free Beacon reached out to both Blue Star Strategies, as well as an attorney for Biden for comment, however neither responded.

This is the swamp that former President Donald Trump warned us about.

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

For a previous report we filed about Hunter Biden’s laptop and national security information contained therein, please read below:

WASHINGTON, DC- Let’s just get this out of the way. Hunter Biden is an idiot. His laptop, which he abandoned at a Delaware computer repair shop, was “protected” with a password a ten-year-old could figure out—Hunter02.

That wouldn’t be much of an issue except for the fact, as the Daily Mail is reporting, that the laptop contained what an IT expert described as a “national security nightmare” and “classic blackmail material.” Pure genius.

Remember, this is the same person whom his father, current Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden referred to as “the smartest guy I know.” That statement should give the American people great comfort knowing this senile old man could be literally running the country in just over two months. A good judge of character he is not.

According to the Daily Mail, the information easily available on the laptop and subject to being obtained by the most novice of computer hackers, included:
• Joe Biden’s personal mobile number and three private email addresses as well as the names of his Secret Service agents;
• Mobile numbers for former President Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton, as well as nearly every member of former President Barack Obama’s cabinet;
• A contact database of 1,500 people including actress Gwyneth Paltrow, Coldplay singer Chris Martin, former presidential candidate and Secretary of State John Kerry, and ex-FBI head Louis Freeh;
• Personal documents to include his passport, driver’s license, social security card, credit cards and bank statements;
• Details of Hunter’s drug and sex issues, which included $21,000 spent on one ‘live cam’ porn website, as well as “selfies’ of him engaged in sexual acts and smoking crack cocaine.

While there didn’t appear to be anything which directly implicated Joe Biden in wrongdoing, there does seem to be information contained therein that points in that direction.

In particular, one email referred to a deal with CEFC China Energy, a now-bankrupt Chinese energy firm. The email refers to a proposed split of payments, which refers to a payment of ten percent to “the Big Guy,” which is believed to be Joe Biden. In fact, this past week, Tony Bobulinski, who was intimately familiar with the Biden’s business shenanigans confirmed that “the Big Guy” was in fact Joe Biden.

For his part, the presidential hopeful has denied the charge, saying:

“I have not taken a penny from any foreign source in my life.”

That may in fact be true, however the money that came from the China deal wouldn’t have come to him directly from CEFC China Energy, but would have been laundered through his son Hunter. So, while he is technically speaking the truth, it appears he may have indirectly received money.

An IT expert told the Daily Mail that it was “staggering” that the laptop had not been encrypted.

“It’s a data breach and dangerous to have this type of material floating around,” said the expert, Chris Greany, a former police commander, who was an advisor to several British foreign secretaries on laptop security.

“For someone prominent, there is not only a risk of great reputational damage but also a risk of blackmail should the material fall into the wrong hands.”

The discovery of the abandoned laptop has been a source of controversy for the past few weeks leading up to the election on November 3. In what many called an act of politically motivated censorship, Twitter throttled the story, deleting the New York Post’s access to their Twitter page after they published the story.

In particular, the Post shared their front-page story about Hunter Biden’s private issues, as well as ties to Burisma, a Ukrainian energy company where he served on the board of directors, despite having zero experience in the energy sector.

At the time, Burisma was under investigation by Viktor Shokin, a special prosecutor in Ukraine, and Joe Biden, then-vice president under Barack Obama famously told Ukraine to fire Shokin or the US would withhold $1 billion in foreign aid.

This gave the appearance of Joe Biden using his political power to help out his son, which is of course at minimum unethical and possibly illegal. Biden has denied any wrongdoing.

The laptop included a claim that Hunter Biden had arranged a meeting between his father and an official from Burisma, a claim which Joe Biden has denied, claiming he had “no knowledge” of Hunter’s business dealings overseas.

The New York Post story was also throttled by Facebook, which claimed they were having “independent fact-checkers” verifying the story. As conservatives and Republicans have seen, Facebook’s “independent fact-checkers” are anything but.

While some have said that the outrage over Hunter Biden’s laptop is being “manufactured” by Republicans and Conservatives, that is not necessarily the case.

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

This past week, Glenn Greenwald, who co-founded the news website The Intercept, resigned after he claimed he was censored for writing an article critical of Joe Biden. And Greenwald is hardly a conservative; he leans squarely to the left.

“The Intercept’s editors, in violation of my contractual right of editorial freedom, censored an article I wrote this week, refusing to publish it unless I remove all sections critical of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, the candidate vehemently supported by all New York-based intercept editors involved in this effort at suppression,” he wrote.

The latest revelations about the laptop and the possible national security revelations come at a bad time for the Biden campaign, although with a complicit media and social media complex it won’t make much of a difference since the story will be buried.

As Law Enforcement Today reported earlier today, a forensics expert has confirmed the emails and metadata on the laptop are authentic. You can link to that story here.

“I have been doing this for 20 years and there is nothing to suggest the laptop or its contents have been interfered with or altered in any way,” said the expert, who has worked with numerous US law enforcement agencies.

“There is no sign of data being added. There is no doubt in my mind that this is the real deal.”

While the FBI has neither confirmed nor denied the existence of an investigation into Hunter Biden, Tony Bobulinski, one of his former business partners confirmed that he has been interviewed by FBI agents late last month and said during that meeting he handed over mobile phone records which jived with the material contained on the laptop.

The Daily Mail also said that a source familiar with the contents of the computer said Saturday.

“The sheer volume of personal and financial information indicates Hunter has been potential blackmail fodder for years.”

“It seems almost inconceivable that Hunter Biden, the son of the man likely to become our next president, was so naïve and reckless that he did not have basic encryption or even a two-state password to protect such highly sensitive material.”

The laptop’s trove of information included names and phone numbers sent to Hunter Biden by then-vice president Biden’s staff in June 2015, just days after the funeral of Biden’s other son Beau, who died of brain cancer.

Besides Bill and Hillary Clinton, the laptop also contained contact information for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

There was an earlier email dated November 2011 which had names and mobile phone numbers for Joe Biden’s Secret Service detail, which a source called “…a flagrant breach of security.”

“If a hostile state or individual had managed to hack into Hunter’s computer—and it wouldn’t have been difficult considering the lack of security on it—they would have easily found out who was guarding the Vice President and potentially been able to threaten family members of those Secret Service members.”

If anyone was a target for getting blackmailed it was Hunter Biden. The laptop showed that he had spent $21,000 on a porn “live” cam site, and $11,400 in a strip club in a single night.

The laptop also had scores of pictures showing Hunter Biden smoking crack, passed out after drinking/drugs, and engaged in sexual acts.

So much did he spend on porn sites that at one point in time his credit card was rejected because the card was maxed out.

Clearly, he was someone who was vulnerable to blackmail from nefarious actors who might attempt to influence his father.

That father could escalate to the most important job in the world on November 3.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.

Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!