JERSEY CITY, NJ – A man in Philadelphia has admitted in federal court to being one of two people that were paid to kill a one-time associate of a political consultant.

The man, identified as 61-year-old Bomani Africa, appeared in federal court via videoconference in front of U.S. District Judge John Michael Vazquez to one count of conspiracy to commit murder for hire.

Africa’s partner, Sean Caddle, plead guilty to the case on January 25th in front of the same judge.

Federal court documents that were released show that Caddle had requested an associate of his, who was not named, to kill an unnamed opponent for thousands of dollars. That unnamed person then recruited Africa to join in the murder plot, who agreed.

Once both the unidentified suspect and Africa informed Caddle they would commit the murder, they were told the victim who had worked for him for a long period of time. The victim worked for Caddle on various political campaigns in New Jersey.

Federal authorities advised that Africa and the unnamed accomplice then traveled from out-of-state to the victim’s apartment in Jersey City. Once there, they made entry into the victim’s apartment and stabbed him to death.

Federal authorities did not advise how the two were able to gain entry.

Once the victim was dead, the unnamed person set the victim’s apartment on fire and left the scene.

When Africa and the other suspect contacted Caddle to inform him that the murder had been committed, he met with the suspect in a parking lot in Elizabeth, New Jersey to pay him. Once he was paid, he split the money with Africa for the murder.

Africa will now be sentenced in federal court for conspiracy to commit murder on June 7th. Africa, who has a violent history, including robbery convictions, faces a maximum sentence of life in prison and a $250,000 fine for the murder of the victim.

The U.S. Attorney for the case, Philip R. Sellinger, noted the hard work and dedication of the special agents from the FBI under the lead of Special Agent in Charge George M. Crouch, Jr. Sellinger also noted the hard work and cooperation of the Hudson County Prosecutors Office.

Sellinger released a statement on this crime, calling it “callous.” He wrote:

“This was a callous and violent crime, and this defendant [Caddle] is as responsible as the two men who wielded the knife. There is no more serious crime than the taking of another person’s life.

[Caddle] has admitted arranging and paying for a murder by two other people. His admission of guilt means he will now pay for his crime.”

While federal authorities did not name the victim in the case, multiple media outlets are reporting the victim in the case was Michael Galdeiere, the son of former Democratic State Senator James Galdeiere. Michael was a well known political figure in Hudson County politics.

Galdieri was stabbed to death in his apartment which was then set on fire in May of 2014. The case went cold for several years until this recent federal case which is seemingly connected to Africa and Caddle’s guilty plea.

Special Agent in Charge Crouch spoke about the guilty case and how it would bring closure to the family of the victims. He said:

“Todays guilty plea will bring some sense of closure to the victim’s family who have been left to wonder – for nearly eight years – who murdered their loved one.

This should serve as a warning to criminals and potential criminals alike – while you are going about your life, thinking ‘got away with it,’ the FBI is piecing together the facts that will serve as your undoing.”

Alvarez’s mother tried to perform CPR on her daughter. Machado told 2 Houston:

“I tried CPR. I couldn’t bring her back. I tried so hard to keep her alive.

“He was just angry at my daughter. It wasn’t love, it wasn’t a breakup, he was angry at my daughter.”

Machado had told FOX 26 that she did not realize that her daughter was planning to meet someone when she left the home to presumably walk the family’s dog:

“I didn’t know she was going to meet him here. She just told me, ‘Can I walk the dog?’ That’s what she told me, and I said, ‘OK, don’t take long, 20 minutes.’”

Witnesses said they heard multiple gunshots and then the sound of tires screeching as a vehicle left the area, according to the Houston Police Department.

It was also reported that at least two people initially got out and then returned to the dark-colored vehicle and left the scene.

While detectives have determined those individuals were not involved in the shooting, they still want to interview them.

Machado said that her daughter was a sophomore and honor student at Madison High School and that she had planned on attending cosmetology school one day. The mother said:

“I loved everything about my daughter, I don’t regret anything. I’m at peace because I gave her all the kisses and all the hugs. I have to be strong now. I can’t break, this is not over.”

Machado told FOX 26 she never liked Deleon, even though he and Alvarez were childhood friends who lived just blocks from each other in the neighborhood.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.