WASHINGTON, DC- Thus far in 2022, seven police officers have been feloniously killed in the United States, with many more injured. Yet even as Joe Biden attempts to project something of a more friendly attitude toward law enforcement, actions speak louder than empty words.

According to the Tennessee Star, the Biden administration has executive action planned which is “tantamount to defunding the police” and “would only further demoralize law enforcement.”

While Democrats have attempted to either downplay or outright deny the surge in violent crime and with it assaults on police officers, Biden press secretary Jen Psaki admitted there has been “a surge [in] crime over the last two years,” and added that “underfunding” of police departments is in part the blame.

“The Department of Justice has announced $139 million in grants to cities for community policing, which will put 1,000 more officers on the streets,” Psaki said. “[Biden has] also proposed doubling those grants, and he’s called for an additional $750 million for federal law enforcement.”

Psaki alleged that Biden has spent his career “fighting for funding for police departments” and as president has “offered unprecedented levels of funding” to put “more cops on the beat.”

Last week at a meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, Biden said, “We shouldn’t be cutting funding for police departments. I proposed increasing funding.”

All of that is of course empty rhetoric. While he (and his mouthpiece) give the appearance of boosting his anti-crime credentials, the Star said, his Justice Department under radical attorney general Merrick Garland is awarding “crime reduction grants” to activist groups linked to anti-law enforcement policies of none other than George Soros.

Soros’s deep pockets have been largely responsible for electing far-left radical DAs in major cities from New York to Chicago to Los Angeles and nearly every one in between.

Those DAs are widely blamed by law enforcement officials and Republicans with fueling the current violent crime explosion in those major Democrat-controlled cities through their soft-on-criminals, light-on-crime approaches.

To add injury to insult, Republicans have railed against a proposed executive order leaked earlier in January which exposed a White House police reform initiative which supports policies advocated by the “defund the police” radicals. The leak was uncovered as congressional efforts for criminal justice reform has screeched to a halt.

Under the proposed order, it would ban equipment commonly used by local law enforcement officers which, according to the draft text, “militarizes” police departments.

For example as written, the order would ban most drones, long-range acoustic devices, and armored cars or MRAPS, which are used by SWAT officers in violent situations. Police agencies would also be prohibited from purchasing flash or stun grenades—nonlethal options used by police to disorient suspects.

What the above will do is lead to many more dead police officers. It may also have the unintended consequence of getting more suspects killed as well, since the Justice Department plans to remove less-than-lethal options from police officers’ arsenal.

Local police departments would also run the risk of losing federal grant funds if they don’t support “alternatives to arrest and incarceration” or establish “programs designed to encourage diversity.”

When the draft was leaked, a group of Republican senators led by Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee wrote a letter to Biden blasting the proposed directive.

“These hard-left policies are extremely ill-advised, dangerous to Americans, and would only further demoralize law enforcement,” the letter read. “We are baffled as to why this administration would want to implement this [order], which is tantamount to defunding the police.”

The Biden administration has thus far not confirmed (or denied) the authenticity of the proposed draft executive order.

Biden has been caving to the progressive, radical wing of the Democrat Party, and in April told a joint session of Congress where he once again threw the police profession under the bus that it was time “to root out systemic racism in our criminal justice system and enact police reform in George Floyd’s name that passed the House already.”

The bill is named for Minneapolis criminal and drug addict George Floyd, who died in police custody in May 2020 from a combination of a drug overdose, heart issues and positional asphyxia.

Floyd’s death spurred deadly and quite costly riots nationwide in 2020 and led to the “defund the police” mantra, which was embraced by Democrats such as Kamala Harris, Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Rashida Tlaib (D-MI), Cori Bush (D-MO) and others.

The Floyd bill Biden referred to was passed by the Democrat-controlled House and would, among other things, establish a national registry of police misconduct under the auspices of the Garland-controlled Justice Department.

The bill would also prohibit no-knock warrants in federal drug cases, and remove qualified immunity from police officers, which prevents frivolous lawsuits from being filed against police officers.

Qualified immunity, were it to be removed, would see officers having their homes, pensions, and other personal possessions placed at risk for sometimes split-second decisions.

Meanwhile, politicians who propose removing qualified immunity enjoy absolute immunity from their decisions, which are made not in split-seconds but often take weeks or months.

While Biden has supported all for the above, he still rather hilariously claims that he opposes defunding police departments and supports police officers. A vast majority of police officers in the country are not buying it. For all his claims about opposing “defunding police,” he has supported reallocating funds away from police departments and into other areas such as social work.

One such proposal in some cities would have social workers respond to calls such as domestic violence, which any police officer will say is one of the most dangerous calls officers respond to. On Jan 21, two New York City police officers were shot and killed at a domestic disturbance in the Harlem section of Manhattan.

Supporters of the “defund the police” movement claim they don’t want to abolish police departments, only cut funding to them…basically word salad.

For her part, Omar—who famously married her own brother to help him skirt immigration laws—has called for the Minneapolis Police Department to be dismantled, calling it “rotten to the root.” New York Reps. Jamaal Bowman (D-NY) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY), who represent portions of New York where the two officers were ambushed, have called to redistribute police funding.

Meanwhile, an attorney for the NAACP who is being considered for the Supreme Court seat left vacant by the retirement of Associate Justice Stephen Breyer, Sherrilyn Ifill has called for defunding the police, having previously claimed that “this over-reliance on police has given us a regime that we can see is not working.” Clearly, she would be a “non-biased” jurist “worthy” of a seat on the high court.

Some Democratic strategists have slammed efforts to defund the police, with former Clinton advisor James Carville saying that such efforts “scare off voters” who might otherwise vote for Democrats.

Likewise, former president Barack Obama in 2020 criticized defund the police rhetoric with costing the Democrats larger pluralities in the House and Senate.

Some Justice Department officials however believe Biden can balance support for the police with addressing alleged discriminatory policing.

“This is not an either/or,” Deputy Attorney General and far-left zealot Lisa Monaco argued, telling CNN, “We have got to do both.”

The record rate of violent crime in cities across the country is weighing heavily on the minds of Americans and Biden’s poll numbers show it. Biden is now stumbling through trying to appear tough on crime amid that historic surge. Recent polls show that anywhere between 60-70% of Americans disapprove of the administration’s handling of crime.

Last year, 13 cities broke their homicide records—all run by Democratic mayors. Television news (not CNN and MSNBC, of course) almost nightly show videos of thefts and looting taking place across the country, which have devastated businesses and in fact have caused some companies, such as Walgreen’s, to close their stores in some places.

In addition to the above, the people who Biden and the Democrats are attempting to defund—law enforcement officers—saw a record number of officers killed in the line of duty last year. According to the Fraternal Order of Police, ambush-style attacks on police officers rose 115% in 2021, the Tennessee Star reported.

Another result of the violent crime surge and defund and anti-police rhetoric is that many officers have simply decided enough is enough. Police departments across the U.S. have struggled to maintain staffing levels as unprecedented number of police officers have either retired or outright quit.

Over the past two years, cities such as New York, Seattle, and others have cut funding for police departments although in light of the increase in violent crime, some have restored at least some of the funding due to political pressure and increased crime.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.

Make sure you click “following” and then click “see first” so you don’t miss a thing! (See image below.) Thanks for being a part of the LET family!