The following contains editorial content which is the opinion of the writer, a retired Police Chief and staff writer for Law Enforcement Today.

NEW YORK CITY- Has anyone noticed the most vile, hateful, and intolerant people overwhelmingly tend to come from the political left? Oh to be sure, there are a few on the right who fall under that description, but for the most part, such people reside on the left.

Such is the case of an unhinged now-former “actress” named Jacqueline Guzman, who went on a deranged rant about being inconvenienced by street closures for the funeral of murdered NYPD Detective Jason Rivera, the New York Post reports.

In a viral TikTok (where else?) video which she since deleted, Guzman engaged in a vile rant about the funeral for Rivera and the “inconvenience” the poor little spoiled wench suffered.

“We do not need to shut down most of Lower Manhattan because one cop died for probably doing his job incorrectly. [emphasis added] They kill people who are under 22 every single day for no good reason and we don’t shut down the city for them,” Guzman said in the clip under the handle @vinylboobs. (class act)

Rivera was shot on Jan. 21 and as he lay on the ground, was shot additional times in what amounted to an execution. His partner, Off. Wilbert Mora, also shot as he lay on the ground, died several days later, according to The Boston Globe.

Guzman spoke as she walked down an empty street in downtown Manhattan, which had been barricaded off for the funeral procession, which drew thousands of police officers from New York City and beyond this past Friday.

“Like this is fucking ridiculous. This is fucking ridiculous. What if somebody is having a heart attack in this area? Nobody can get to them because it’s all blocked off for one fucking cop,” she screeched.

Perhaps Guzman might want to speak in person to Rivera’s widow, to whom he was only married for four months and ask her how she feels about Guzman’s “inconvenience.”

Guzman, who plays pretend for a living, was employed as an actor with a company called Face to Face Films in New York City.

As expected, Guzman was eviscerated on social media and beyond.

“New Yorkers turned out by the thousands yesterday to help us honor our fallen brother. One person spreading hate cannot erase that. This kind of garbage has polluted the conversation for far too long. We need the New Yorkers who are standing with us to speak up and push back,” said Police Benevolent Association President Patrick Lynch.

One NYPD officer from Brooklyn said Guzman’s video was “totally disrespectful, not only to the NYPD but to all New York residents and to all humans. If this is the only way she can get publicity, I feel very sorry for her.”

The Post said that Guzman’s acting company as well as other personal details about her had been posted to social media.

If Guzman was looking for publicity, this clearly isn’t what she was looking for.

In a statement, Face to Face Films announced they had cut ties with Guzman.

“Face to Face Films has just been made aware of an insensitive video involving one of our members, Jacqueline Guzman. Face to Face Films does not support nor condone these comments made about fallen Officer Rivera. As a result, she is no longer a member of our company,” the company posted on its Facebook page.

The Post reached out to Anthony Laura, founder of the company, who confirmed Guzman was an actress with the film and theater company, but declined comment beyond that.

“Everything is in the statement,” he said.

According to Guzman’s bio, since removed from the Face to Face site, it said she is a “Cuban American actress based in NYC, originally from Hialeah, Florida.”

The Post said Guzman had removed all of her social media accounts by Saturday night and didn’t return a call seeking comment.

Despite Guzman wussing out and deleting the video, which mattered not because it had been copied and reposted by others and continued to circulate online.

As far as Guzman’s career choice moving forward, we hear the New Jersey Turnpike Authority is looking for people to clean toilets in their rest areas. That would seen to be right up Guzman’s alley.

As mentioned, the left is full of unhinged lunatics. Here is a previous article Law Enforcement Today published about a New York Times “journalist”:

The following contains editorial content written by a retired Police Chief and current staff writer for Law Enforcement Today.

Looks like somebody needs a tissue. Such is the case of an unhinged New York Times reporter who ranted about a gun rights group, Great Lakes Gun Rights in a voicemail message, according to Fox News.

Last week, Erin Marquis unleashed on a verbal tirade after receiving an email from the group, a state affiliate of the National Association for Gun Rights.

“Just got a press release from the Great Lakes Gun Rights organization about protecting gun rights from democrats in Michigan and I am literally shaking with rage. I hope there is a God and they meet that God someday,” she raged on Twitter.

She also doxed the group, posting the number and email address of the group in order to “make your displeasure known.”

The incident came about after the gun rights group issued a press release last week which called out Michigan Democrats, who in typical knee-jerk fashion announced they would be trying to pass new gun rights laws after the school shooting at Oxford High School, led by tyrant Gov. Gretchen Whitmer.

“Great Lakes Gun Rights urges the Legislature to reject the politically-motivated calls for more gun control and to instead focus on life-saving policies that allow law-abiding citizens to be their own self-defense,” Executive Director Brenden Boudreau wrote.

The National Association for Gun rights later posted a video which featured an email allegedly left by the incredibly angry Marquis in which she went off on an unhinged rant:

“Hi, I’m a journalist with the New York Times. I’m just calling to wonder…I have two questions. How do you sleep at night? And aren’t you just a bit worried that there might be a hell? And when you meet God, he will send you there?

That’s just my only question. The third question [thought she said she had two], the only people politicizing this seems to be you because you’re the only people I got a fucking press release from,” Marquis said. [where’s the third question?]

“Again, I am from the New York Times, and I’m letting everyone in the New York Times know what kind of fucking assholes you are. Congrats on being a laughingstock. You fucking ghouls. I hope that there is a God in heaven, so He judges you when you die.”

Fox News Digital reached out to the New York Times for comment, which responded:

“We expect our employees to behave in a way that is consistent with our values and commitment to the highest ethical standards. We are currently reviewing this matter, which involves an employee of Wirecutter, our product recommendation site, who does not work in the New York Times newsroom.”

So in other words, not only is Marquis a crazed lunatic she’s also apparently a liar.

While Marquis passed herself off as a journalist with the Times, her Twitter biography lists her job as lead editor for Wirecutter, which is affiliated with the New York Times. As mentioned in the release recei9ved from the Times, Wirecutter is a “product recommendation service” which gives consumers advice on the latest merchandise being sold.

It appears that Marquis’ Twitter account has either been set to private or deleted. #gutless

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

For our prior reporting on other media malfeasance, we invite you to:

The following contains editorial content which is the opinion of the author, a retired Chief of Police and current staff writer for Law Enforcement Today.

KENOSHA, WI- Commonly accepted narratives in the United States are no longer based on facts, but instead based on memes and the assorted lunatics who populate sites such as Twitter, TikTok, YouTube and others.

Facts no longer matter to the lamestream media, only the preferred narrative. It no longer matters what the truth is, and no longer is it required to conduct even a modicum of research. Such is the case with Kyle Rittenhouse, the now 18-year-old who is on trial in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

If you were to only watch CNN and MSNBC, you would think this was a racially-motivated killing by a vigilante premised on white supremacy. That of course is absurd, but it hasn’t stopped deranged people such as Joy Reid, Andrew Cuomo, Nichole Wallace, and an assorted gaggle of far-left “guests” claiming that is exactly what happened.

One claim went as follows: “A white, Trump-supporting, MAGA-loving Blue Lives Matter social media partisan, 17-years-old, picks up a gun, drives from one state to another with the intent to shoot people,” was one such comment, this from John Heilemann, MSNBC national affairs analyst. [emphasis added] All of that was made up, of course.

This is of course nothing new. Over the past five years or so, we have seen all manner of outright fraud perpetrated by the media and leftist politicians such as the Russia collusion hoax, the death of Capitol Police Off. Brian Sicknick, the origins of COVID, Hunter Biden’s laptop, Charlottesville…the list goes on and on.

With all of that in mind, Miranda Devine of the New York Post wrote a column which debunks at least ten lies which have been perpetrated by the mainstream leftist media, unhinged politicians such as Cori Bush (D-MO) and many others about Kyle Rittenhouse. Here are the “10 debunked heinous lies” pushed by the left:
• Rittenhouse killed two black BLM protesters: He shot three men, all white, in self-defense during the violent Kenosha, Wisconsin riots. In all three cases, Rittenhouse was either retreating or was in a vulnerable position.
• Much has been made about Rittenhouse “driving across state lines,” which gives the impression he drove hours to go from Antioch, Illinois to Kenosha, Wisconsin. In fact, the distance between the two cities is less than it is to drive through Los Angeles, only about 20 miles. In addition, Rittenhouse’s father and grandmother, along with other relatives and his best friend live in Kenosha, so he has strong ties to the community. He also works in the city.

Kyle worked as a lifeguard prior to the incident on Aug 25, and went to help clean graffiti at a local school, whereby they were asked to join some adults who were guarding a used car lot where some 100 cars had been lit afire the night before as police, under direction of the mayor, left the city virtually unguarded.

Rittenhouse was armed in order to protect himself, with the violent rioters being armed, including one man whom he shot, Gaige Grosskreutz who attempted to point a loaded Glock at his head, leading Rittenhouse to shoot him in the arm. As an aside, Grosskreutz, a convicted felon, wasn’t charged with having an illegal firearm.
• The mainstream media claims Rittenhouse “carried an AR-15 across state lines,” with Esquire Magazine accusing him of “terrorist tourism.” Another lie. The AR-15 was stored in a safe at his best friend’s stepfather’s home in Kenosha.
• He was illegally in possession of the AR-15…another falsehood. That charge was dismissed by the judge and it was amazing this charge was even considered by the grand jury in the first place.
• It was claimed that Rittenhouse’s mother “drove him across state lines” to participate in the riot. In fact, his mother, Wendy never went to Kenosha. She slept late on the morning of Aug 25 after working a 16-hour shift at a nursing home near Antioch, Illinois, as she related to the Chicago Tribune. Kyle was already at his lifeguard job in Kenosha when Wendy Rittenhouse woke up.Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.
• The media claimed Rittenhouse was an “active shooter” who went to Kenosha with the intention of causing problems. Here is MSNBC talking dufus Joe Scarborough:“A 17-year-old kid just running around shooting and killing protesters,” he said, “who drove across state lines with an AR-15 and started shooting people up.” Did Scarborough even watch the videos of the incidents? Rittenhouse was seen clearly running away, not picking off people at random as an active shooter would be doing.Scarborough also said Rittenhouse was “a self-appointed militia member…unloading 60 rounds”…another outright lie. When that lie was in fact addressed during the defense’s closing arguments, Scarborough tweeted he was “embarrassed” for the lawyer. As a point of information, this moron Scarborough has (or had) a law license.
• Despite the fact that every single key player in this incident is white, Rittenhouse has been referred to as a “white supremacist,” including by the current empty suit occupying the Oval Office, Joe Biden, who labeled him as such in a tweet in 2020.When White House propagandist Jen Psaki was asked about the allegation by Fox News’ Peter Doocy, she used the label “vigilante” without specifically naming Rittenhouse.

The term “white supremacist” was used by the Intercept 16 times in one story, once again despite zero evidence to that fact. Moreover, the FBI looked at Kyle’s cellphone and found zero evidence indicating white supremacy or militias, according to court testimony.

There was a lot indicating he was pro-police, which isn’t surprising given the fact that he is a former police explorer, a fire department cadet, and who aspired to be either a police officer or a paramedic. Oh, and he sat near the front of a rally for former President Donald Trump, however so that automatically makes him a “white supremacist.”
• Rittenhouse was accused of making the infamous “white power” sign by making the OK symbol after he was freed on bail last year after spending three months in jail, where he was seen at a bar with his mother and other adults having a beer…which is legal in Wisconsin.He posed for selfies with adults whom the media says are “Proud Boys” during which he flashed the OK hand sign. This so-called white supremacist signal evolved from a hoax on a website called “4chan” which was a means to punk gullible liberals, who continue to fall for it.The gesture has been commonly used for example in the NBA, Biden himself has used the signal numerous times, yet when it is convenient leftist moonbats refer to it as a “symbol of white supremacy.”
• Hollywood far-left actor Matthew Modine, who apparently stayed at a Holiday Inn Express and now considers himself a private eye or forensics expert claimed Rittenhouse wore surgical gloves “to cover his fingerprints,” which is of course absurd. Rather he wore surgical gloves, which first aid personnel always use as PPE (personal protective equipment) while giving first aid to protesters.The fact he wasn’t wearing the Fauci face diaper to cover his face would seem to indicate he wasn’t quite trying to hide his identity. Who is Matthew Modine anyway? Never heard of her.
• The media claims the judge is a “Trumpy” who is racist and biased toward the defense, another absurd claim. Much of this stems from the fact Judge Bruce Schroeder would not let the prosecution use the biased term “victim” to describe those who were shot by Rittenhouse; however this is common practice when a jury hasn’t ruled on a case.The term “victim” connotes if one is defined as such, there must be someone who “made” them one. This is nothing unusual.

Secondly, the judge made what might be considered an ill-advised comment about Asian food ordered by the court staff being held up by the supply-chain situation.

But the greatest sin of all is that the ringtone on Schroeder’s phone plays, “Proud to be an American,” a Lee Greenwood song that is often played at rallies for President Trump. However it is hardly anything akin to a “Trump anthem.”

It is a patriotic song that anyone who isn’t a leftist probably knows all the words to.

All of that is made more ridiculous by the fact that Schroeder is a registered Democrat, has run as a Democrat for the Wisconsin state senate, and was initially appointed by a Democratic governor.

Much was also made of the fact that Rittenhouse was allowed to draw names randomly from a container at the end of the trial where the original pool of 18 jurors would be drawn down to 12. According to Schroeder, this is nothing unusual, but something he always does.

The media circus surrounding the trial and the distortions perpetrated by the left-wing mainstream media did not go unnoticed by Schroeder, who addressed it Wednesday before the jury deliberations, and even noted he might reconsider his allowing of trials to be televised going forward given media malfeasance in the Rittenhouse case.

While it is understandable that the judge is frustrated by how the media has reported on the case, in particular some of his conduct, the fact members of the public were able to witness the sheer ineptitude of the prosecution as well as see firsthand that what the lamestream media has been pushing as a narrative was nothing but a series of manufactured lies, designed to instigate false outrage on behalf of a segment of the American public.

Unfortunately, it may be too little too late.

Editor note: In 2020, we saw a nationwide push to “defund the police”. While we all stood here shaking our heads wondering if these people were serious… they cut billions of dollars in funding for police officers. And as a result, crime has skyrocketed – all while the same politicians who said “you don’t need guns, the government will protect you” continued their attacks on both our police officers and our Second Amendment rights.

And that’s exactly why we’re launching this national crowdfunding campaign as part of our efforts to help “re-fund the police”.

For those looking for a quick link to get in the fight and support the cause, click here.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.