Sen. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) has been hospitalized after suffering a stroke late last week, according to a statement his office released late on Tuesday afternoon.

“Early Thursday morning, Senator Lujan began experiencing dizziness and fatigue. He checked himself into Christus St. Vincent Regional Hospital in Santa Fe,” Carlos Sanchez, the senator’s chief of staff, said in an email. “He was then transferred to UNM Hospital in Albuquerque for further evaluation. Senator Lujan was found to have suffered a stroke in the cerebellum, affecting his balance. As part of his treatment plan, he subsequently underwent decompressive surgery to ease swelling.”

“He is currently being cared for at UNM Hospital, resting comfortably, and expected to make a full recovery,” the statement continued. “The Senator’s offices remain open and will continue providing constituent services to all New Mexicans without any interruption. The Senator and his family would like to thank the wonderful doctors and staff at both UNM Hospital and Christus St. Vincent Regional Hospital for their excellent care during this time. Senator Lujan looks forward to getting back to work for the people of New Mexico. At this time, he and his family would appreciate their privacy, and ask for your continued prayers and well wishes.”

The Wall Street Journal noted that while Lujan is not present in the U.S. Senate there will only be 49 senators in the Democrat caucus, “making passing any party-line nominations difficult, including President Biden’s Supreme Court pick, as well as any legislation that needs full support from Democrats.”

Lujan was sworn into office earlier this year after previously serving as a Representative for New Mexico’s Third Congressional District.

This is a breaking news story; refresh the page for updates.

The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.