Authorities say they have not established a motive in a shooting outside a suburban Minneapolis school that left one student dead and an another critically injured

RICHFIELD, Minn. -- Authorities said Wednesday they have not established a motive in a shooting outside a suburban Minneapolis school that left one student dead and another critically injured.

The students were shot Tuesday outside South Education Center in Richfield, a suburb just south of Minneapolis. Police arrested two teen suspects at separate locations later in the day. They are expected to be charged Thursday, police said.

Richfield Police Chief Jay Henthorne said five students were involved in the “horrific, tragic incident,” but did not give further details other than to say it was a disagreement among “acquaintances.”

A 15-year-old student was killed and a 17-year-old student was critically injured. A third student at the school was hurt but Henthorne said he was not sure whether the injuries were from gunfire.

“We are confident this was an isolated incident and no threats exist in our community,” Henthorne said.

Police said two handguns were recovered late Tuesday, one in Minneapolis and one at a residence in suburban Crystal.

South Education Center has about 200 students, according to its website, which describes it as a school that offers special education programs and an alternative high school, with students as young as prekindergarten. It is part of District 287, which provides services to 11 school districts across the Minneapolis area as well as some students from other districts.

District 287 Superintendent Sandra Lewandowski said the students were shot near the school’s front entrance. Everyone at the school and others involved are “hurting greatly," she said Wednesday.

“The trauma they experienced will be with them the rest of their lives,” Lewandowski said.

Pulford said Rice had switched schools “just so he could find a place where he can be successful. Jamari had heart. He was a good kid.”

Richfield Mayor Maria Regan Gonzalez said Wednesday that school should be a place where every student feels safe and comfortable “and that was shattered yesterday.”