A recent article in the Atlanta Journal Constitution claims the Atlanta Police Department’s Real-Time Crime Center (Fusion Center) has just created a 4,500 real-time camera surveillance network using “Connect Atlanta.”

The article also revealed that police use “Connect Atlanta” to monitor shoppers and fans in real-time at the Lenox Square shopping center, the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, and much more.

A three-year-old article in the Atlanta Journal Constitution revealed that Atlanta’s fusion center has already created a network of at least 11,000 surveillance cameras.

“Connect Atlanta” has all the earmarks of police cam-share networks that have been sprouting up in cities across the country. As of 2018, there were at least 36 different types of police cam-share programs, and they all have the same thing in common; sharing business and homeowner surveillance camera footage with police departments without a warrant.

After all the recent Black Lives Matters protests and living through two plus years of COVID lockdowns, law enforcement thinks that now would be a great time to create a massive surveillance network of 30,000 CCTV cameras.

O’Connor admits that no one will be safe from Big Brother’s gaze as a network of more than 30,000 surveillance cameras will make it hard for any Black person to travel anywhere without being monitored by Homeland Security/law enforcement.

“It’s not going to be tomorrow. It may not even be next year. But over time it’s going to be so hard to do anything where you’re not seen by one of these surveillance systems,” he said. “It’s getting harder and harder to do something and get away with it,” O’Connor said.

Imagine living in a city of 5.6 million people where roughly 2.8 million of them are Black and being told by the police that they are going to surveil everyone, everywhere where they go. Has Black oppression really ended, or has it taken on a new form of 24/7 fusion center surveillance?

According to Fūsus CEO Chris Lindenau, police in 85 communities across the country are using Fūsus software to track millions of innocent minorities in real-time.

Communities across the country are encouraging their citizens to send anonymous “tips” (text messages, photos or videos) to fusion centers about suspicious people, where police can store and view their tips on Fūsus’s digital evidence “vault”.

A Fūsus article about their Real-Time Crime Center In The Cloud reveals just how invasive police surveillance has become.



 It seems like police departments from New Hampshire to Hawaii are using the pandemic as an excuse to create Fūsus/Fusion Center surveillance camera networks.

“A diverse set of law enforcement agencies ranging from the Georgia Tech Police Department, the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office and the New Hampshire Department of Safety, to Police Departments in cities like Rialto, Honolulu, Minneapolis, and Oak Lawn have all recently activated the Fūsus platform to power their Real-Time Crime Centers. Some of the primary factors driving adoption of the Fūsus solution is the ability to quickly implement a robust, fully functional Real-Time Crime Center solution remotely without the need for onsite work, and the aggressive price-point of the solution, which makes it affordable for Departments located in cities suffering from budget shortfalls due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.”

Using the pandemic to create massive surveillance camera networks where no one can escape Homeland Security’s gaze is the modern surveillance state. As Slate said, “the Eye of Sauron atop a tower, taking in the whole world, has resonated with those who are paranoid about government monitoring.”

One does not have to be paranoid about government monitoring to see just how invasive 30,000 surveillance cameras targeting minorities really is. If Americans continue to believe the lies that law enforcement tells them, then our privacy and freedoms are doomed, because soon every street in every city will be covered with hundreds of thousands of Homeland Security surveillance cameras.

Become a Patron!

 Or support us at SubscribeStar

 Donate cryptocurrency HERE

Subscribe to Activist Post for truth, peace, and freedom news. Follow us on Telegram, HIVE, Flote, Minds, MeWe, Twitter, Gab, What Really Happened and GETTR.



Provide, Protect and Profit from what’s coming! Get a free issue of Counter Markets today.