Jen Psaki isn’t what I would term a good press secretary. However, as I’m not a fan of her boss, I might be more than a little biased.

However, in the process of doing press, there are a few things one shouldn’t do. That includes laughing about violent crime.

In a Friday podcast appearance, White House press secretary Jen Psaki laughed and ridiculed Fox News for broadcasting a discussion of the victims of violent crime in America’s cities. Psaki was a guest on the leftist podcast Pod Save America. She was in a discussion with Jon Lovett, one of the former Obama aides who host the show, about the difficulties of communicating the president’s message through the media. Psaki then moved on to one of the Left’s favorite pinatas, Fox News. She looked up to describe what she currently saw on a split-screen monitor streaming top news stations. “So, right now, just to give you a sense, there’s CNN, ‘Pentagon: As many as 8,500 U.S. troops on heightened alert.’ Okay, true. Same on MSNBC. CNBC is doing their own thing about the market.” Psaki then looked back into the camera with a smirk of disbelief. “And then, on Fox, is Jeanine Pirro talking about soft on crime consequences. I mean, what <laughs> what does that even mean? Right? There’s an alternate universe on some coverage. What’s scary about it is that a lot of people watch that.”

Yeah, the record high homicide rates in many cities–cities that opted to turn jail cells into revolving doors–really is a difficult concept to grasp.

Psaki thinks the whole thing is a joke, but people are dying. People are being slaughtered in the streets. Literally.

Then, to top it off, she lies about her boss trying to do something about it.

Psaki went on to complain that Fox viewers “think that the president isn’t doing anything to address people’s safety in New York, and that couldn’t be further from the truth, or other places,” but the damage was done. Her callous nonchalance for the very real suffering caused by Democrat policies was clearly exposed for all to see.

Oh, he’s talked gun control, but he knows that’s never going to survive the filibuster in the Senate. Well, maybe not him, but his handlers have to know this. There’s just no chance of gun control passing with the Senate in its current configuration.

And since the midterms are expected to be a bloodbath for the Democrats, they have to know it’s not happening later, either.

That is, however, pretty much all Biden is doing to address violent crime–and violence isn’t just in New York, for crying out loud. It’s everywhere–instead of sitting down with Republicans and saying, “OK, where can we find some common ground on this.”

But Biden won’t do that.

So, instead of that, Psaki laughs as people are being gunned down in the streets of America and then lies about her boss actually doing anything about it.

Which, frankly, is about all I expect from her.