President Trump Calls Sen. Lindsey Graham a ‘RINO’ Who ‘Doesn’t Know What the Hell He’s Talking About’ on Jan. 6

President Donald Trump fired back at Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) during an interview with NewsMax TV on Tuesday night.

Graham has recently gone on the fake news media and offered a host of terrible opinions, from supporting Biden’s affirmative action choice for Supreme Court to supporting the cruel and unusual detention of Jan. 6 protesters. Trump has finally had enough with the dainty southern neocon.

“Lindsey Graham’s wrong. I mean, Lindsey is a nice guy, but he’s a RINO. Lindsey’s wrong,” Trump said before talking about the nationwide rein of terror from Black Lives Matter and ANTIFA that was allowed with near total impunity.

“Don’t forget, with the exception of one young, fine woman, nobody died on Jan. 6… The one person who died was Ashli Babbitt, she was killed by a ruthless man that never should have used his gun to shoot her. She was killed, and I think it’s a disgrace,” he continued.

“What they’ve done to these, who are in many cases patriots, they’re soldiers, they’re policemen, what they’ve done to them, compared to what they’ve done to the other side. You know, you need to have equal justice, and this isn’t equal. So I would absolutely be prepared [to pardon Jan. 6 protesters], and Lindsey Graham doesn’t know what they hell he’s talking about,” Trump added.

The clip can be seen here:

Big League Politics has reported on Trump’s fight to get the truth out on what really happened on Jan. 6 while fighting for patriots who were ensnared in that situation:

“President Donald Trump heaped praise on Revolver News, the populist reporting site and aggregator edited by Darren Beattie, for its reporting on Jan. 6.

“Congratulations to Darren Beattie and Revolver News who have exposed so much of the Fake News’ false narrative about January 6th. Because of Darren’s work, and others, Americans aren’t buying into the Unselect Committee’s attempts to smear 75 million (plus!) Americans. The newly minted term “Fedsurrection,” was even trending!” Trump wrote in an email blast through his Save America PAC…

In addition to reporting about Jan. 6 chicanery, Beattie and Revolver News were on the cutting edge in reporting about the color revolution coup against Trump in the months leading up to the 2020 presidential election, as Big League Politics has reported.”

President Trump is showing he is the leader the country needs by raising awareness to the injustices being endured by Jan. 6 protesters. He must avenge the stolen election and save America once and for all in 2024.