Moms Demand Action is one of those anti-gun groups that we’re just stuck with. They’ve been more effective than many anti-Second Amendment groups, of course, but that doesn’t mean they’re right.

However, while trying to address the so-called “boyfriend loophole” at Elle’s website, founder Shannon Watts opts to just make a bunch of crap up about gun rights supporters.

First, I want to interject that while I don’t doubt some of these women have been called such things, considering some of the things Moms Demand Action supporters have said about gun owners, they’re kind of mild.

But unkind names do not misogyny make.

And that, ladies and gentlemen, is an outright lie.

First, hate is a very strong word. While I know plenty of people who are anything but fans of the Shannon Watts Fan Club, few actually hate her or anyone else from Moms Demand Action. Frankly, most of us don’t care enough about them to have any feeling close to hate, truth be told.

Second, if we “hated” Moms Demand Action volunteers because they were women, then why would we adore so many of the women in our own ranks? Folks like Cheryl Todd, Amanda Suffecool, and Robyn Sandoval all are on my friend’s list and are among some of my very favorite people in the gun rights community.

If it was about them being women, that simply wouldn’t happen.

Moreover, if it were true, none of the women who make a living in the pro-gun world would be able to do so. People don’t pay folks they hate, as a general rule.

And Watts actually knows this.

But surely Watts provides some evidence of this, right? Well, not really.

Now, do I think she gets those kinds of messages? Sure.

But she’s not unique. I’ve gotten some pretty insane crap in my DMs as well.

However, part of the reason Watts gets stuff like this and little else may well be because she’s notorious for blocking anyone critical of her on social media. I’ve been blocked for years, as have any number of others I know.

What’s more, people know this. So, they figure if they’re going to get blocked by Shannon Watts, they might as well earn it.

Now, I’m not excusing such comments. However, when you’re claiming gun owners are misogynists, you’re going to get comments like that. It’s a knee-jerk reaction that many people, myself included, tend to take when they’re told they’re a sexist piece of filth. It’s not definitive proof of anything other than a desire to get under her skin.

And she knows it.

So, this entire screed she wrote–and there is soooooooooo much more I could talk about–is all prefaced on lies. As such, is there really anything else she can say that should be taken the least bit seriously?