‘SPOT-A-FLY’: White House Gaffes And Wants MORE Censorship Of Joe Rogan

The White House indicated Tuesday that Spotify’s attempts to address what they described as Covid-19 “misinformation” on podcast host Joe Rogan’s interviews was not a strong enough response to the freedom of speech controversy, Breitbart News reported.

Spotify announced a decision Sunday to stick “content advisory warnings” on Rogan’s interviews that end up discussing the Covid-19 pandemic with links that push the viewer to read government-endorsed narratives surrounding the virus and draconian policies that followed it. This move came the after demands of various musicians, including Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, and others, that Spotify chooses between removing either Rogan or themselves from the platform. People like Young and others who seek to censor Rogan argue that both himself and anybody who thinks or speaks similarly should not be allowed to have a platform; their speech is wrought with “disinformation” and therefore too dangerous to not silence.

“It’s a positive step but more can be done,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said during the daily briefing on Tuesday.

“That certainly includes Spotifly” she said, mispronouncing the tech platform’s name as “spot-a-fly” rather than “Spotify.”

“This disclaimer, it’s a positive step but we want we want every platform to continue doing more to call out misinformation and disinformation while also uplifting accurate information,” she continued.

Psaki also reportedly claimed that it is a “fact” that people who do not take the experimental Covid-19 mRNA inoculation are “six to eight times more likely to die” from the virus than those who took both the jab and additional booster shots after.

“That’s pretty significant, and we think that is something that unquestionably should be the basis of how people are communicating about it,” she added.

In a social media video addressing the controversy, Rogan promised to include more balance on discussions of the Covid-19 pandemic and the experimental jab as he continuously holds the belief that it is important to explore all sides of a given issue.

“I don’t want to just show the contrary opinion to what the narrative is,” Rogan said. “I want to show all kinds of opinions so that we can all figure out what’s going on, and not just about COVID, about everything, about health, about fitness, wellness, the state of the world itself.”

Big League Politics previously covered the Joe Rogan-Spotify controversy. More on that can be found by clicking here.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.