LIAR: FBI Director Chris Wray Claims Jan. 6 Protesters Have Been Treated No Different by Agency Than ANTIFA and BLM

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director Christopher Wray is claiming that there is no difference in how the FBI has treated Jan. 6 protesters in relation to how ANTIFA and Black Lives Matter forces have been treated.

“We have one standard, which is: I don’t care whether you’re upset about an election or upset at our criminal justice system,” Wray said while appearing at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley for a speech on Monday night.

“Whatever it is you’re upset about, there’s a right way and a wrong way to express your being upset in this country and violence — violence against law enforcement, destruction of property — is not it. …That’s what the rule of law is about,” he added.

Wray conjured up excuses as to why the Jan. 6 protest crackdown has been so aggressive in comparison to FBI’s response to ANTIFA and BLM thuggery.

“In the Jan. 6 instance, it happened in broad daylight and was … photographed extensively, people’s faces eminently visible, and involved a fairly unmistakable breach and entry into the Congress while they were in the middle of conducting one of their most sacred responsibilities. Contrast that from a lot of what we saw over the summer was happening under cover of darkness, with people’s faces concealed, often attacking buildings that might not be federal property, in some cases a courthouse, but not while people were in operation,” he said.

However, Wray’s talking points do not live up to the reality. The truth is ANTIFA and BLM terrorists are allowed to operate with impunity while Jan. 6 election integrity protesters are crucified by the system.

Big League Politics has reported on how ANTIFA/BLM forces had their charges quietly dismissed after the feds talked tough following their sustained campaign of terror on a government building in Portland:

“The federal Department of Justice (DOJ) has dismissed cases for 31 ANTIFA thugs who were charged with crimes related to rioting in Portland, Ore.

Four defendants who were charged with felony assault of a federal officer had those charges dropped. More than half of the charges were “dropped with prejudice,” meaning that those cases cannot under any circumstances be brought up again in court.

Billy Williams, the U.S. Attorney for Oregon, claimed at the time there would be severe consequences against ANTIFA terrorists who committed wanton acts of destruction outside of the Mark O. Hatfield United States Courthouse throughout the summer of 2020.

“Make no mistake: those who commit violence in the name of protest, will be investigated, arrested, prosecuted, and face prison time,” Williams stated in a Sept. 25, 2020 press release.

After blatantly lying to the public, Williams continues to make excuses for the feds’ refusal to punish ANTIFA terrorists.

“Each case was analyzed for the evidence that we had at the time,” Williams told KJW. “Careful decisions were made on whether or not someone should be charged based on the evidence.”

“I’ve never made a decision in my career based upon political pressure or institutional pressure,” Williams claimed.

Big League Politics has reported on other instances in which federal authorities protected ANTIFA thugs, with the FBI regularly carrying water for the far-left terror group.”

The rule of law is dead in America, and a Soviet-style regime of justice has replaced it. This is the land of the free no longer. It is a globalist technocracy now, and the FBI are the brown shirts enforcing the anarcho-tyranny needed to prop up this demonic regime.