A stunning Trump endorsement in Tennessee has caused quite a stir around MAGA country. The Republican in question is Morgan Ortagus, a former State Department spokesperson and career-long war-hawk.

Former President Donald Trump is facing serious backlash from die-hard loyalists over his decision to intervene in a Tennessee House race, with his supporters accusing him of spurning a staunch Republican ally who’s running.



Trump on Tuesday evening endorsed Morgan Ortagus, who served as a State Department spokesperson during his administration and is pondering a run for a Middle Tennessee-based congressional district. The announcement has caused a firestorm, with far-right, high-profile backers ranging from North Carolina Rep. Madison Cawthorn to conservative activist Candace Owens taking to social media to voice their support for Robby Starbuck, a rival candidate who’s been a mainstay of the pro-Trump movement.

An exclusive story by Revolver Tuesday dug into the Trump-endorsed candidate, concluding banally that their “research indicates this Trump endorsement is even worse than you might have thought at first glance.”

Publicized statements of Ortagus posted by The National Pulse shortly after Trump’s endorsement showed that she was formerly quite critical of the former president. One past comment by Ortagus implied that she either at best had been duped by the common media lie that Trump had made fun of reporters due to their physical disabilities… or at worst wilfully joined in on the deceit.

“You have somebody who makes fun of people with mental and physical disabilities. That’s disgusting; there’s no other way around it,” remarked Ortagus in January 2016 during an interview with Fox News. Ortagus, while working for a super PAC associated with Trump’s primary opponent former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, said she “fundamentally disagree[d]” with Trump’s approach to foreign policy. “In his gut, he does not think that Americans should be, quote unquote, the policemen of the world,” she said during a 2016 panel discussion dissecting Trump’s foreign policy speech. “I don’t see it that way. I think that America is the glue that holds the world together. … So there were points that I agreed with him today, but overall, I fundamentally disagree with his isolationist approach to foreign policy,” she added. Ortagus and her second husband were married by the late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in 2000.

Some have defended Ortagus for these past remarks, arguing that it is in the past and she has changed. Fortunately for us, Revolver was able to pull up numerous current examples, of which many were in the past few weeks.

It was just last month when Ortagus called for the US government to immediately ship weapons to Ukraine.

She also called for immediate sanctions on Russia despite that the nation has yet to launch an invasion on anybody at the moment.

Ortagus reminded her viewers just a week ago that Russia is not the only foreign entity that the United States should enter complicated entanglements with, calling for attention to be given to Iran as well.

Hold on, why is America supposed to be there again?

It bears worth mentioning that all of the posts you just saw went up in just the past three weeks.

The former State Department spokeswoman was a war hawk during Trump’s presidency too, seemingly calling for regime change in Syria back in April of 2017.

Trump’s endorsement of Ortagus and her response can be found below:

“Endorsing the right candidates with the right priorities is critical to ensuring that if Trump runs for president and wins in 2024, he’ll have the support of a GOP that enables his policies instead of sabotaging them,” concluded the Revolver story. “Even if Trump doesn’t run, these endorsements are a way to create a party that reflects and carries on his legacy instead of abandoning it.”

The complete and full Revolver piece can be found by clicking here.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.