An exclusive report from TheWrap on Tuesday spelled bad news for the mainstream media and the left alike, with data analyzing viewership across Fox News, MSNBC, and CNN showing strong gains for Fox and the opposite for the other aforementioned outlets. The data was collected through polling and surveying Americans aged 25-54.

Initial results were largely unsurprising, with surveys concluding that a majority of both Republicans and independents watch Fox News:

The Nielsen MRI Fusion numbers reveal that in October, Fox News unsurprisingly got the majority of the audience of self-proclaimed Republicans, with 69% of them overall tuning into total-day programming and 73% of them in the demo tuning into primetime programming. CNN and MSNBC split the remaining conservatives with totals in the low double-digit percentages. Fox News also commanded the largest number of independents in the key news demo during primetime and total-day hours: 55% of those 25-54 watched the network in primetime, compared to CNN’s 23% and MSNBC’s 22%. During total-day hours, 58% of independents in the demo watch Fox News, 18% chose MSNBC and 25% selected CNN. Surprise! Tucker Carlson Draws the Most Democratic Viewers in Key Demo, Even Topping Rachel Maddow

But what shocked many viewers was what came next: the survey concluded that “of those demo-aged viewers surveyed who identified as Democrats, 39% chose Fox News, 31% chose MSNBC and 30% chose CNN for programming from 8 p.m. ET to 11 p.m. ET. In total-day viewership, Fox News grabbed 42% of Democrats aged 25-54, CNN nabbed 33% and MSNBC got 25%.“

That’s right, the majority of young self-identifying Democrats in this survey were more likely to watch Fox News than CNN or MSNBC.

This is even more apparent after one learns that of the top four programs among Democrats in total viewers, Fox News had three: “The Five,” “Tucker Carlson Tonight” and “Hannity.” The one leftist show that topped Fox among Democrat Viewers was MSNBC’s infamous “The Rachel Maddow Show.”

Fox News host Tucker Carlson drew attention as well, who according to TheWrap “was top among Democrats in the demo across all of cable news that month and ranked third place among Dems in total viewership, too.”

TheWrap made a point to mention that the above-discussed numbers only account for last October and thus are only part of a much larger sample size. Also mentioned was that “Tucker Carlson Tonight” was the highest-rated program in cable news overall in the entire year of 2021, bringing in an average of 3.214 million total viewers.

Sounds like a tough situation for the fake media to overcome.

Support Big League Politics by making a donation today. You can also donate via PayPal, Venmo or donate crypto. Your support helps us take on the powerful and report the truth that the mainstream media wants to silence.