Far-left billionaire George Soros has demanded the replacement of Xi Jinping as leader of the Chinese Communist Party.

In a speech delivered at the conservative Hoover Institution, Soros compared the upcoming 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics to the 1936 Olympics in Nazi Germany.

Soros blasted Communist China as the “world’s most powerful authoritarian state” and “the greatest threat that open societies face today.”

He warned that China, “like Germany in 1936,” will “attempt to use the spectacle” of the upcoming Beijing Olympic Games “to score a propaganda victory for its system of strict controls.”

Soros also called President Xi “a true believer in communism,” unlike former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, who introduced free-market reforms.

The liberal financier warned that “Mao Zedong and Vladimir Lenin are [Xi’s] idols.”

Soros concluded his speech with a call for regime change in China – echoing the current line of many American conservatives, who also oppose Xi’s leadership.

“This would remove the greatest threat that open societies face today and they should do everything within their power to encourage China to move in the desired direction,” the billionaire declared.

Soros is the founder and chairman of the Open Society Foundation, which backs liberal and left-wing causes in the US and around the globe, including Black Lives Matter, Planned Parenthood, and immigration reforms.

He has also taken an interest in US district attorney races, pouring millions into these contests, with some of these Soros-backed candidates now overseeing prosecution in America’s major cities.

In an explosive new book, “The Man Behind the Curtain: Inside the Secret Network of George Soros,” renowned investigative journalist and author Matt Palumbo exposes how the billionaire uses his global groups to peddle influence around the world.

The hugely popular exposé was recently snubbed from the New York Times “Best Seller” list.

Unsurprisingly, Soros owns millions of dollars worth of stock in the newspaper.

Palumbo’s “Man Behind the Curtain” is Slay News’s recommended “Must Read” book.