While being largely banished to irrelevancy, the Lincoln Project has been under a microscope again lately over their finances, as it’s been revealed people are actually somehow still donating to the group that was devastated by a sexual harassment (and coverup) scandal in early 2021.

While the group’s political activism has been reduced to some angst-ridden interns posting low-IQ propaganda on Twitter, the group is still paying out millions in expenses to staff, among other expenses.

It’s also been reported that the group had to pay out a six-figure settlement to Jennifer Horn, a Lincoln Project co-founder who resigned during the aforementioned John Weaver sexual harassment scandal.

Jennifer Horn received $375,000 from the Lincoln Project last year, according to campaign disclosures released this week. The Lincoln Project paid Horn, a cofounder of the group, an initial installment of $250,000 on July 15 and monthly installments of $25,000 thereafter. Horn resigned from the Lincoln Project in February amid allegations that Weaver made unwanted sexual advances toward more than 20 young men. The Lincoln Project fired back at Horn after her resignation, claiming she quit over a contract dispute. The group said Horn asked for a $250,000 signing bonus and a $40,000 monthly consulting fee. Other Lincoln Project founders at the time were raking in millions of dollars a year through their consulting firms. One founder, Steve Schmidt, said he saw the Lincoln Project as a path to “generational wealth.” Horn alleged other Lincoln Project founders knew of allegations against Weaver before they were made public. She claimed she was “demeaned” and “lied to” after she confronted another Lincoln Project executive about the inconsistency. The Lincoln Project responded on Twitter by publishing Horn’s exchanges with a journalist writing about the Weaver allegations. The group deleted the posts, and Schmidt stepped down from the board of directors. He issued an apology to Horn after she reportedly threatened to take legal action. The terms of Horn’s legal settlement are not clear. The payments are listed as “legal payout[s]” in Federal Election Commission records.

In one of their latest questionable attempts to become relevant again, the Lincoln Project has been helping promote Check My Ads, an organization that attempts to cancel the advertisers of conservative publishers by harassing companies on twitter. The group is co-founded by Nandini Jammi, who once wrote a blog post arguing for leniency for young sex offenders, and Claire Atkin, who recently offered to buy sexually themed materials to minors.

Atkin recently appeared on a podcast with Lincoln Project co-founder Reed Galen, where the duo whined for a half hour that Dan Bongino isn’t being censored enough to an audience of dozens (DOZENS!) of people.

Amusingly, this new partnership came after Jammi had publicly denounced the Lincoln Project for years, which just goes to show how totally real her principles are.

But just like the Lincoln Project, she’s never seen an opportunity to grift that she could turn down!

Matt Palumbo is the author of The Man Behind the Curtain: Inside the Secret Network of George Soros