CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Harry Styles, 28; Ronda Rousey, 35; Big Boi, 47; Michael C. Hall, 51.

Happy Birthday: A direct approach to whatever you take on will help you reach your goal. Stay on course, regardless of temptation or what others decide to do. Control your emotions, and designate more time to research and preparation. Look at the facts before you take what others say into consideration. Base your decisions on what you know and what you can do. Your numbers are 5, 16, 21, 26, 29, 37, 41.

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Listen, assess and formulate what you must do to reach your target. Call on someone you know you can rely on, and it will verify that you are on the right track and put your mind at ease. 4 stars

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Indecisiveness will cause confusion, and mistakes will occur if you can’t differentiate between what you want and what you can have. Dissect the information you receive, and verify facts. Reality and practicality trump winging it. 2 stars

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stay on track and forge ahead. Ignore what others do or say so you don’t fall behind. Simplify your life and stick to the path that leads to the highest rewards. You stand to prosper if you are dedicated and innovative. 5 stars

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You’ll have some unique ideas to share. The input you receive will help you expand your plans. Reach for the stars, and you’ll make a difference to the outcome. Love is in the stars, and making a bold move will be engaging. 3 stars

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Partner with someone who has as much to offer. If you join forces with someone who is all talk and no action, you’ll do all the work yourself and still have to share the rewards. Set high standards, and expect the same from others. 3 stars

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have plenty to look forward to if you embrace the changes that come your way. Don’t fear doing things differently or changing your direction midway. Let your intuition guide you, and you will find the happiness you deserve. 3 stars

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Show resilience and tenacity, and you will overcome any negativity or opposition you meet along the way. Deny anyone the right to lead you astray or take away what’s rightfully yours. Call the shots, and make meaningful decisions. 5 stars

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t let bitterness engulf you when creativity and adventure will enlighten you and push you in a beneficial direction. A positive attitude will make it easier to let go of the past and find solace and peace of mind in the future. 2 stars

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Spend more time on moneymaking projects and less socializing with your friends. Too much partying will lead to temptations that make someone you care about question your standards and morals. Protect your reputation, position and valued relationships. 4 stars

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Count on yourself and you won’t be disappointed. Delegating responsibilities to someone who isn’t reliable will leave you looking bad. Pick up the pace, and you’ll be able to get everything done on time by yourself. 3 stars

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Check facts, but let your emotions contribute to your decision. Have a heart and be mindful, but don’t show gullibility. A positive change can lead to progress, but it must be for the right reason to get the result you want. 3 stars

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Listen, evaluate, adjust and do what works for you. Don’t feel you have to do things the way someone specifies if you have a system that works better for you. Process what’s entailed, and deliver what’s essential. 3 stars

Birthday Baby: You are diplomatic, intelligent and conscientious. You are visceral and complex.

1 star: Avoid conflicts; work behind the scenes. 2 stars: You can accomplish, but don’t rely on others. 3 stars: Focus and you’ll reach your goals. 4 stars: Aim high; start new projects. 5 stars: Nothing can stop you; go for gold.

Want to get a link to your daily horoscope delivered directly to your inbox each weekday morning? Sign up for our free Coffee Break newsletter at mercurynews.com/newsletters or eastbaytimes.com/newsletters.