In today’s world, 1 in every 20 babies is conceived through IVF, and more and more women in their mid-thirties start to freeze their eggs in hopes of becoming mothers. Rebel Wilson, a world-famous actress with a successful career, shares her rise to fame and her own journey toward a healthier self as well as the main thing that kickstarted it.

Rebel Wilson rose to fame with her role in the movie, Pitch Perfect. After graduating high school and traveling through South Africa, she ended up getting malaria. In the hospital, she had a hallucination that she was an actress. This was enough to convince her that this is how her life was going to be. Finally, coming back home, she told everyone her new plan of becoming a professional actress and winning a lot of awards.

She got a law degree in 2009 as a backup because all her friends thought she was crazy for wanting to make it big as an actress. “Education really is the key to unlocking opportunities! So study hard kids!! Back when I started college, I couldn’t even afford all of my law textbooks and would have to read from the library copies. I’m so proud to have come this far!”

One woman, one big suitcase, and one little pillow

“In Hollywood, it’s kind of too late to become an actress after 30. I sold everything I owned and came to America with one suitcase and one little pillow. I had my first small role for which I was overqualified,” Rebel explained. This proves, once again, that following our instincts and actively working toward your dream is a recipe for turning it into reality.

In 2020, Rebel took the reigns of her life and embarked on her “year of health.”

Reminiscing about times when she was bigger, Rebel shared that she still felt confident; but she had to address her unhealthy relationship with food. “I think it was about not being a natural performer and having to deal with performing every day.” Rebel continued, “People are beautiful in any shape or size, and I genuinely believe that. I just got to a point where I knew deep inside that I was engaging in some activities that were unhealthy.”

“Before my weight loss, I had a really successful year professionally, and the next year, all news centered around lost pounds.” For Rebel, the journey was about “getting to the healthiest version of me. I know what it’s like to be an invisible woman for most people because I’m not seen as traditionally beautiful.” The actress shared that she’s glad her message got across to people — the one that her journey was not about losing weight, but about becoming healthier.

In a vulnerable post, Rebel shared, “I got some bad news today and didn’t have anyone to share it with...but I guess I gotta tell someone. To all the women out there struggling with fertility, I feel ya. The universe works in mysterious ways and sometimes it all doesn’t make sense...but I hope there’s light about to shine through all the dark clouds.”

“Behind the scenes, all my actress friends are freezing their eggs.” Rebel Wilson’s desire to have kids was the main inspiration for her weight loss. Looking into fertility options, her doctor said that if she’d get healthier, her chances for freezing eggs would increase as well as their quality. “I was a woman who didn’t even think about kids until I got into my thirties, I was like, okay, do I want kids? I’m the healthiest I can be, and whatever happens, will happen.”