CBS Essentials is created independently from the CBS News staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.

Wondering what to gift your boyfriend, son or husband for Valentine's Day 2022? How about some new clothes, tech essentials or a coffee subscription that he'll appreciate? And don't forget a Valentine's Day card with a personalized note for your partner.

Ahead, seven Valentine's Day gift ideas to make him feel loved from Unbound Merino, Courant, Theragun and more. Surprise him with one of these thoughtful gifts on Valentine's Day, Feb. 14.

We hate to say it, but winter isn't over yet. He'll get good wear out of this itch-free, 100% Merino wool sweater, scarf and hat bundle. Select the color you'd like for each. The hat and scarf are naturally antibacterial and moisture-wicking. The sweater is odor resistant, anti-wrinkle and temperature regulating. Buying this bundle is $30 cheaper than buying each item individually.

If he's an outdoorsy kind of guy, he'll appreciate this card. You can even fill out the card online and have it delivered straight to your partner's doorstep.

He can charge his tech all in one spot on this aesthetically-pleasing, Belgian linen wireless charging tray. Choose from three colors. And for a nice personalized touch, add a monogram for an additional $10.

Choose from 2 to 24 bags of java for your favorite coffee lover with this gift subscription. He can then choose the frequency at which he'd like to receive these coffees from the nation's top roasters in the mail.

If you're ready to splurge, gift him the much wish-listed Theragun Elite. This muscle therapy device for tension and soreness is ultra-quiet, has a customizable speed range and smart app integration with Bluetooth. Plus, trading massages is for a great Valentine's Day couples' activity. Choose from three colors.

Bathing Culture was founded by two best buds in San Francisco who needed a body wash to get clean after muddy trail bike rides. Their unisex products have a California redwoods-inspired scent. This gift set includes the refillable glass Mind & Body Wash, Outer Being Face & Body Oil (to stay moisturized), Cathedral Grove Perfume Oil and Love is Rad Enamel Pin. Plus, $5 of the proceeds are donated to support transgender employment programs through the San Francisco LGBT Center.

Or maybe he'd prefer some new Apple AirPods. The Apple AirPods Pro offer active noise cancellation, a MagSafe Charging Case and more.
• None 10 Instant Pots and Instant Pot recipes perfect for the Super Bowl (or any game day)
• None 7 easy air fryer recipes for the NFL playoffs and Super Bowl (plus deals on air fryers)
• None 10 running shoes for the new runner
• None Top rated face masks for your winter workouts as COVID-19 cases surge