Typical establishment politicians wait until AFTER they are in office before they start turning their backs on election promises. Abbott couldn’t even wait until after the PRIMARY.

The man’s been in office for years, should he have some sense by now of what things he can and cannot reasonably promise? Pulling back a promise in February that you made just in December makes you wonder how reliable his other promises are.

Isn’t that part of what the base liked so much about Trump — he delivered on his promises when so many other politicians failed to do so the same?

As an Arctic front closes in on Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott held a press conference Tuesday to inform and prepare Texans on what to expect with the coming storm. “Obviously, we have a very substantial winter storm coming into Texas over the next few days that will be in the State of Texas for the remainder of the week,” Abbott said. “We want to make sure that our fellow Texans know exactly what is coming, what to expect. We want them to know what Texas has been doing for basically an entire year now to be prepared for the storm, in addition to steps that have been taken over the past week or two, as well as what we will be doing over the course of the remainder of the week.” —WFAA

It’s the typical press conference stuff, a storm is coming, do what you can to be ready, we are taking steps… blah, blah, blah…

And then he says this.

Hold on… that sounds like he knows a Bad Thing could be coming, but he isn’t quite man enough to speak plainly for fear of, what … sound bites? What, exactly, is he trying to use weasel words to both say-and-not-say?

Here’s an Australian article from 2019 explaining how the term ‘load shed’ is used.

In plain English, he means that Texans could be stranded without power (again) if the storm gets bad enough. But, that doesn’t really match the confident boasting he made just a couple of months ago, does it?

In November, he promised — no he guaranteed — the lights would stay on THIS winter:

Do the folks delivering the power share his optimism? Or was this a typical politician’s empty promise in an election year? Here’s a follow up-piece just days before we began a new year.

Two weeks earlier, Abbott had told Austin’s Fox 7 News that he “can guarantee the lights will stay on.” The press conference that followed from Lake and the chief of the state’s independent grid operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, came at the governor’s request, according to two state officials and one other person familiar with the planning, who were not authorized to discuss the matter and spoke on the condition of anonymity. “It was 150% Abbott’s idea,” said one of the people familiar with the communication from Abbott’s team. “The governor wanted a press conference to give people confidence in the grid.” …But the messaging has projected a level of confidence about the grid that isn’t reflected in data released by ERCOT or echoed by some power company executives and energy experts who say they’re worried that another massive winter storm could trigger widespread grid failures like those that left millions of Texans without power in February, when hundreds of people died. Abbott has also met one-on-one with energy industry CEOs to ask about their winter readiness — but those meetings happened weeks after Abbott made his public guarantee about the grid. “You’d think he would have asked to meet with us before saying that,” one person involved in the energy company meetings, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said of Abbott’s guarantee. …“It might be a good political move, but it’s just a political move,” Peter Cramton, an energy markets expert and former ERCOT board member who resigned after the storm, said of Abbott’s promise. “It’s not surprising. His fate is on the line. So this is a sensitive political issue now.” — FloydCountyRecord

It’s leadership missteps, like this one, that have led former supporters like Ted Nugent to throw his full support behind his Republican challenger, LTC Allen West. Here’s Nugent in his own words:

Interested in knowing more about West or his campaign? Find him at his website, West4Texas.

Psalms of War: Prayers That Literally Kick Ass is a collection, from the book of Psalms, regarding how David rolled in prayer. I bet you haven’t heard these read, prayed, or sung in church against our formidable enemies — and therein lies the Church’s problem. We’re not using the spiritual weapons God gave us to waylay the powers of darkness. It might be time to dust them off and offer ‘em up if you’re truly concerned about the state of Christ’s Church and of our nation.

Also included in this book, Psalms of War, are reproductions of the author’s original art from his Biblical Badass Series of oil paintings.

This is a great gift for the prayer warriors. Real. Raw. Relevant.