Atheists now guard the government from Christian influence more jealously than Christians now guard the Church from undue government influence. How sad is that?

When your entire role in society boils down to sharing a message, your personal credibility becomes of critical importance.

Just ask the news, they’re in a ratings free-fall now because so many people have caught on to the fact that there is more spin than substance to what is ‘reported’ in most outlets. The personal brand of independents on neutral sites is one of the few exceptions explicitly because their brand is their personal credibility and integrity, not that of the corporation they work for.

This pandemic has caught our supposed scientific ‘experts’ with their pants down more times than we care to count, reversing one official decision after another, legislators breaking laws they themselves passed, letting political parties (like Teacher’s unions) craft CDC covid guidance, having private emails of government officials contradict public statements.

They have shown that there really is little ‘objective science’ left to salvage in a department that has been wholly hijacked by political pressures and interests.

As bad as that is, far worse is the fact that some of Christianity’s influencers have been willing accomplices for pushing the official narrative of people who have proven themselves to be fundamentally dishonest.

One of the foremost examples among them is no less a COVID luminary than National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins… the ‘scientist’ who had very vested reasons for publicly discrediting the ‘lab leak’ Wuhan virus origin theory despite a conversation with experts in Feb of 2020 where experts were confident the genome had been manipulated in a lab.

Francis Collins was working with Christian influencers, getting their help in amplifying the COVID message, even as the same Federal Government was setting arbitrary and unconstitutional restrictions on religious freedoms.

He specifically approached Ed Stetzer, with the explicit intention of having Ed’s network and influence magnify the Federal COVID message.

Not to put too fine a point on it, Stetzer was persuaded to preach the Gospel according to Fauci. He was happy to help… and he was one of many such preachers.

In short, when it comes to leveraging high evangelical offices to influence everyday Christians, arguably no one is better positioned than Ed Stetzer. You may not know his name, but if you’re a church-going Protestant, it’s almost guaranteed your pastor does. Which is why, when Stetzer joined a line of renowned pastors and ministry leaders lending their platforms to Obama-appointee Collins, the collaboration was noteworthy. During their discussion, Collins and Stetzer were hardly shy about the fact that they were asking ministers to act as the administration’s go-between with their congregants. “I want to exhort pastors once again to try to use your credibility with your flock to put forward the public health measures that we know can work,” Collins said. Stetzer replied that he sometimes hears from ministers who don’t feel comfortable preaching about Covid vaccines, and he advises them, in those cases, to simply promote the jab through social media. —DailyWire

It went further than ‘merely’ encouraging Christians to take the vaccine. He swerved into the explicitly political, and in so doing, he (and so many others) inadvertently helped Collins lie to the public about where the virus came from… and God alone knows what else.

Stetzer’s efforts to help further the NIH’s preferred coronavirus narratives went beyond simply giving Collins a softball venue to rally pastors to his cause. He ended the podcast by announcing that the Billy Graham Center would be formally partnering with the Biden administration. Together with the NIH and the CDC it would launch a website, coronavirusandthechurch.com, to provide clergy Covid resources they could then convey to their congregations. Much earlier in the pandemic, as an editor at evangelicalism’s flagship publication, Christianity Today (CT), Stetzer had also penned essays parroting Collins’ arguments on conspiracy theories. Among those he lambasted other believers for entertaining, the hypothesis that the coronavirus had leaked from a Wuhan lab. In a now deleted essay, preserved by Web Archive, Stetzer chided, “If you want to believe that some secret lab created this as a biological weapon, and now everyone is covering that up, I can’t stop you.” —DailyWire

Ironically, Collins was running a CYA campaign to discredit dissenting voices like the Barrington Declaration (whose original positions have held up surprisingly well for something so loudly denounced), and concealing his own financial connections to Bat Coronavirus gain-of-function research in the Wuhan Lab.

Meanwhile, sites like ours were cautiously optimistic about how the vaccine might be able to benefit the most fragile among us by reducing the chances of some of the worst complications, but we encouraged our readers to carefully weigh the pros and cons in deciding what course of action best suited your own personal risk profile.

For the record, our stories about the origin theory have held up… from the very beginning, we found the lab leak the most probable explanation, and Fauci’s explanations didn’t pass the sniff test.

Christianity Today and the Gospel Coalition were similarly recruited to serve as unwitting echo chambers for Collins’s own misleading messaging.

The DailyWire article cited goes on to name a long list of people who have lined up to deviate from the Great Commission and help propagate a message founded neither on Truth nor on the Gospel.

There is no word on who has been influencing Pope Francis, but he, too, is parroting Fauci’s Gospel.

There once was a time when preachers thought their primary responsibility was reconciling sinful man to a holy God, so that we may enjoy eternal life, even if delivering that message might come at the cost of their own lives.

When, exactly, did the message flip, so that our primary fear is that of mortality which we will all eventually face anyway, with hardly a thought given — even among Christian ‘influencers’ — for the latter? If Christian ‘influencers’ won’t heed THAT warning, they might at least heed this one: My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment.

The Church desperately needs a new crop of courageous leaders. Which was the point of the featured book, below.

Rules For Radical Christians is not a survival devotional designed to help the young Christian adult limp through life. Rather, it is a road-tested, dominion blueprint that will equip the young adult with leadership skills and sufficient motivation to rise to a place of influence in an overtly non-Christian culture. Rules For Radical Christians gives the reader the keys to become strategically equipped to move into an anti-theistic environment and effectively influence it for the glory of God.

You can choose either the classic Paperback to trigger your college professors and quasi-communist classmates, or the Kindle edition to always have it on hand.