Just a few years ago, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was very concerned about protecting the rights of Canadians “even when it is difficult.” My, how times have changed!

It’s pretty clear that Justin Trudeau is doubling down on vilifying the truckers protesting vaccine mandates in front of Parliament. He’s called them racists, sexists, “anti-vaxxers”, anti-science, and dismissed them as a “small, fringe minority” who hold “unacceptable views.”

But there was a time when Trudeau took a stand for the rights of a Canadian who pretty clearly held “unacceptable views”. Trudeau even said that it was at those times that governments need to stand up for the rights of citizens the most — not just when it’s easy.

Here’s what Justin Trudeau had to say in 2017 about what governments are supposed to do to protect the rights of their citizens:

What’s important to note is that Trudeau was defending the rights of a convicted terrorist in that clip.

The clip posted on YouTube cuts off before it got interesting. (Apologies for the video, it’s difficult to find the full clip.)

In 2017, the Trudeau government settled with convicted war criminal Omar Khadr and handed him $10.5 million (CAN). It was a very unpopular move with Canadians.

Khadr is a Pakistani Canadian born in Toronto whose father, Ahmed Khadr, was friendly with Osama bin Laden. In 1995, Ahmed was arrested in Pakistan in connection with the bombing of the Egyptian Embassy but was released in 1996. Later, Ahmed was a suspect in the 9/11 terror attacks in New York and Washington.

In 2002, Ahmed sent his teenage son Omar to Afghanistan to act as a translator for al-Qaeda. Omar, then 15 years old, was the only survivor among a group of militants in a firefight with American forces. Khadr was convicted of throwing grenades that killed army medic Sgt. Christopher Speer and blinded Sgt. Layne Morris in one eye.

Khadr spent several years imprisoned in the U.S. detention facility in Guantanamo Bay and was transferred to Canada in 2012 where he remained until his release in May of 2015.

Canadian media insisted that Khadr was a “child soldier” and that his rights were violated. Canadian courts agreed, but public sentiment was very divided.

Trudeau’s government insisted that it was better to settle with Khadr than go through the courts and perhaps end up paying him even more. The opposition believed that it was a lame excuse and was just another example of Trudeau’s Liberal Party virtue signaling that they’re not Islamophobes by handing over millions to a convicted terrorist.

When the settlement was reached with the Liberal government, attorneys for the family of US Sergeant Christopher Speer had been trying to enforce a $134-million (US) wrongful-death judgment against Khadr that was originally handed down by a U.S. court in 2015. The $10.5 million was transferred quickly and quietly. Tabitha Speer, the widow of Sgt. Speer, attempted to file a motion to have Khadr’s assets frozen so that he would be forced to pay the wrongful death settlement owed to the Speer family, but a Canadian judge rejected the application.

This is who Justin Trudeau was defending the rights of.

You can see how much he’s flipped in this video here:

Here’s a very old clip of Trudeau back when he was a newly-elected Member of Parliament with his future as Prime Minister years ahead of him and his background as a substitute Drama teacher on full display.

What an insufferable ass that guy is.

Trudeau’s father, Pierre Eliot Trudeau, was also an insufferable ass that became Prime Minister of Canada. The one signature accomplishment during Pierre’s 15 years as Prime Minister, was the creation of Canada’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Although it sounds similar to what Americans would call the Bill of Rights, it has some asterisks in it that allow the government to abridge the enumerated “rights and freedoms” in certain circumstances. Over the past two years, the Trudeau government has trampled on Canadians’ rights completely ignoring the spirit behind the Charter.

That’s what the “Freedom Convoy” is all about — the violation of Charter Rights. The Charter states that “Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of the person and the right not to be deprived thereof except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice.”

As well as certain protected rights — including the right to move around from province to province as well as to leave and return to Canada.

People supporting the “Freedom Convoy” say that vaccine passports violate Section 6 of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

Many Canadians are extremely concerned about the ongoing suspension of their Charter Rights for a virus that we know will likely become endemic, and are concerned about the number of vaccine doses that will be needed since Trudeau had bragged about securing 400 million doses of vaccines when the entire country has around 38 million people. How many shots will the government force Canadians to take?

But Trudeau doesn’t seem to see a problem with turning Canadians into pincushions for Big Pharma. In Canada, there is no acknowledgment of natural immunity, and the only option in getting life back to somewhat normal is vaccination. Now, there are Canadians that cannot leave Canada because they or their children age 5 and up are not vaccinated.

Trudeau has been going all-in on the vilification — dare I say “othering” — of Canadians who have decided for whatever reason to not get the vaccine.

When he chose to hold an unnecessary election in the middle of a pandemic just two years after the last election, he ran on a platform of protecting the vaccinated from the unvaccinated.

That’s some strange, strange anti-vax messaging going on right there.

Now that the truckers are making their opinions heard loud and clear — along with a whole lot of horns blasting — Trudeau is doubling down on vilifying the unvaxxed.

It was not always so. Back in 2021, Trudeau had some understanding that there were reasons that people chose to remain unvaxxed, and said that Canada wouldn’t make COVID vaccines mandatory.

Canadians deserve so much better than this flip-flopping asshat trampling their rights to play to his neurotic mask-loving base.

Psalms of War: Prayers That Literally Kick Ass is a collection, from the book of Psalms, regarding how David rolled in prayer. I bet you haven’t heard these read, prayed, or sung in church against our formidable enemies — and therein lies the Church’s problem. We’re not using the spiritual weapons God gave us to waylay the powers of darkness. It might be time to dust them off and offer ‘em up if you’re truly concerned about the state of Christ’s Church and of our nation.

Also included in this book, Psalms of War, are reproductions of the author’s original art from his Biblical Badass Series of oil paintings.

This is a great gift for the prayer warriors. Real. Raw. Relevant.