CNN Underscored reviews financial products such as credit cards and bank accounts based on their overall value, but does not review all financial companies or all available financial offers. We may receive compensation for sending traffic to partner sites, such as CreditCards.com, and this compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site.

The end of the year is almost upon us, which means you have only a few more days to take advantage of this lucrative Amazon promotion that’s targeted at people with American Express cards.

Most American Express card members typically think of their Amex points as opportunities for amazing travel opportunities. While that’s true, there’s another lesser-known use for them — redeeming them for purchases at Amazon. And thanks to this offer, you may be able to save as much as $60 on your next Amazon purchase simply by using your Amex points.

Only some American Express card members are targeted for this promotion, so scoring it can be a little complicated. But we’re going to take you through it step by step to make sure you’re getting as much of a discount as possible when you’re shopping at Amazon.

Let’s start with the broad details. While this is a single promotion, there are actually three different variations of it. If you’re eligible, you’ll be offered either a discount of 20% off your purchases for up to $20 in savings, 30% off for up to $30 in savings or 50% off for up to $60 in savings.

However, these offers are only available until December 31, 2020, so if you didn’t use them during the holiday shopping season, you’ll want to make sure you take advantage of them before they expire.

How to save money at Amazon with your American Express card

How can you get one of these Amazon discounts? To start, you must have an American Express card that earns Membership Rewards points. Amex cards that earn other types of rewards, such as cash back or airline miles, won’t work. But there are plenty of Amex cards that earn Membership Rewards points — a small sampling of them is at the end of this story.

Next, you’ll need to link your Amazon and American Express accounts. Add your American Express card as a payment method in your Amazon account, if you haven’t already. Then look for the option to enroll in “Shop with Points” under the “Your Account” tab, and click the “Enroll” button for the Amex card you just added.

Once your accounts are connected, you’ll need to activate the offer by clicking on this link. Remember, this is a targeted promotion, so not everyone will be eligible for it — you could be targeted for any one of the offers or none of them. When you click on the link, if you see a message that you’re not eligible, then you’re unfortunately not targeted for this particular promotion.

But even if you’re not targeted, don’t give up hope. If you just enrolled in “Shop with Points,” you may need to wait 24 hours for Amazon’s records to refresh before knowing if you’re targeted, so check back in a day or so.

If you’re eligible, activate the offer by clicking on the “Activate now” button — the enrollment page will indicate your particular discount. You can then shop at Amazon as you normally would, though only products sold and shipped by Amazon are eligible for these discounts. Additionally, Amazon gift cards are excluded, though other third-party retailer gift cards sold by Amazon are eligible.

But wait! There’s one more step. When you’re ready to check out, you’ll want to make sure to select your linked American Express card as your payment method. Then you’ll need to use at least 1 point to pay for your purchase for the discount to apply.

When paying with Amex Membership Rewards points at Amazon, 1 point equals 0.7 cents. That’s not the best value you can get for Amex points. CNN Underscored’s partner The Points Guy values Membership Rewards points as high as 2 cents each when redeemed for travel.

However, it’s important to note that you don’t have to pay for your entire Amazon purchase with points to get these discounts. In fact, you can use just 1 point and pay for the rest with your Amex card, and you’ll still see the discount applied to your order.

To pay with the minimum number of points required, enter $0.01 in the points section at checkout, which will apply just 1 point to your payment, You can use any number of points you want, but if you don’t make this change, Amazon may automatically apply the maximum number of points to cover the entire purchase, so you’ll want to make sure to update the amount before you place the order.

Once you’ve applied at least 1 point to your payment, you’ll see the discount added to your order. You also don’t have to use your maximum savings all at once — the discount will apply to every order you place between now and December 31 until you hit the maximum combined savings for your particular offer.

While these discount offers don’t apply to Amazon gift cards, they do apply to many other third-party retailer gift cards that Amazon sells. And Amazon has literally hundreds of options, including retailers that might be useful right now such as Netflix, DoorDash, Safeway and more.

So even if you don’t find anything you want at Amazon in the next few days, you can buy a gift card for yourself using the discount and bank the savings for later.

Earn 8 extra points for every dollar you spend at Amazon as well

American Express also has a related promotion as part of its Amex Offers program, letting targeted card members earn an extra 8 Membership Rewards points for every dollar spent at Amazon from now through December 31.

Even better, this promo will “stack” with the other Amazon discounts, so you can actually get money off and earn 8 bonus points per dollar if you’re targeted for both promotions.

Here’s how to find out whether you’re targeted for this 8x offer. Sign into your American Express account online at americanexpress.com, then scroll down to the section marked “Amex Offers & Benefits” and look for an offer to “Get +8 Membership Rewards points per eligible dollar spent” at Amazon.

If you don’t see it, try clicking the blue “View All” button at the bottom of the section to see more offers, or read more details on how these offers work in CNN Underscored’s complete guide to Amex Offers.

Since Amex Offers are targeted, you’re not guaranteed to have this offer. But if you do, it’s important to activate it by clicking the “Add to Card” button next to the offer before you make your Amazon purchases or you won’t get any bonus points.

Once you add it to your card, you can charge your Amazon purchases to your Amex card just like usual and you’ll see the bonus points show up after you pay your statement.

This lucrative 8x promotion is capped at 3,000 bonus points, meaning on up to $375 in Amazon purchases. But you don’t have to spend that all at once — you can use it over multiple Amazon trips and each one will get 8x bonus points, up to $375 in total purchases.

The best part is these extra points come on top of any points you normally earn on your American Express card. So if you have a card like The Blue Business® Plus Credit Card from American Express, which already earns 2 points for every dollar you spend up to $50,000 per year (1x thereafter), you’d earn a whopping total of 10 points per dollar on your Amazon shopping.

What if you’re not targeted for these offers?

Even if you’re not targeted for these particular Amex promotions, offers like this typically resurface many times throughout the year, so keep on checking back. Amazon is also currently running similar promotions for Discover credit card holders, Chase credit card holders and Capital One credit card holders — read our guides on each of those offers to find out how to take advantage of them.

Amazon offered some incredibly lucrative promotions throughout 2020 — some of the best we’ve ever seen. So as 2021 gets underway, keep your eyes peeled for any other savings that may pop up, and if you’re targeted for any of these offers, make sure you use them before they expire on December 31.

If you don’t currently have an eligible Amex card, here are several options you might consider:

Amex business cards:

The Blue Business® Plus Credit Card from American Express

American Express® Business Gold Card

The Business Platinum Card® from American Express

Also, make sure you read our guide to the best credit cards for Amazon to be sure you’re using the right card when you buy at Amazon.

Check out CNN Underscored’s list of 19 of our favorite products under $15 on Amazon.

Find all the latest personal finance deals, news and advice at CNN Underscored Money.