Mobile phone data from the night Madeleine McCann disappeared puts the prime suspect ‘no more than five minutes away’ from where the toddler vanished, it has been claimed.

Christian Brueckner, 44, was named in June 2020 as German prosecutors’ main suspect in the Madeleine case.

The three-year-old disappeared from the Portuguese resort of Praia da Luz on May 3, 2007, and has not been seen since.

Brueckner is currently serving time in a German prison for a number of sex and drug offences. Ever since he was identified as a suspect, he has repeatedly denied any involvement in the case.

It has been claimed he has a ‘number of alibis’ who can testify to his whereabouts for the night Madeleine vanished and he has never been charged.

But now a documentary claims to have shed more light on the unsolved case, including Brueckner’s movements.

In a series of revelations, it claims Brueckner ‘repeatedly worked’ at the holiday apartments where the McCanns were staying.

Quoting a ‘reliable witness’, documentary makers SAT.1 allege Brueckner carried out ‘repair work’ at the Algarve resort and was ‘very familiar’ with the area, the Telegraph reports.

In a statement, a spokesperson for SAT.1 said: ‘A reconstruction of the evening of the crime and extensive research in Portugal and Germany found that Christian B was very familiar with the Ocean Club area in Praia da Luz.

‘Prior to Maddie’s disappearance, he repeatedly carried out repair work at the place where the three-year-old disappeared in 2007.’

The holiday complex has not commented on the claims.

Brueckner was seen in the area around the resort of Praia da Luz in the days surrounding Madeleine’s disappearance.

The TV crew claimed ‘on-site analysis of phone records showed that Christian B and his cell phone must have been no more than five minutes away from the Ocean Club [apartments] on the night of the disappearance.’

He was previously found to have made a 30-minute phone call in Praia da Luz around an hour before the toddler vanished, according to the Telegraph.

Brueckner has always and continues to deny any involvement in Madeleine’s disappearance.

In a series of letters he sent to the documentary makers from prison, he said he had no involvement in the abduction, claiming he was a drug dealer at the time and wanted to avoid police attention.

He wrote: ‘I was never caught [for drug dealing] by the police because I followed a few key principles.

‘Where possible, only drive during the day so my battered “hippy bus” didn’t attract attention, only driving on roads I needed to and, most importantly, never provoking the police.

‘So, that means not committing any crimes, certainly not abducting anyone.’

He said the idea of abducting Madeleine was ‘just as absurd to [him] as starting a nuclear war or slaughtering a chicken.’

Brueckner is currently serving a seven-year sentence in prison for raping a 72-year-old American woman in the Algarve in 2005.

Police officers are also investigating his alleged involvement in three other cases.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.