American soldiers walk single file to board a C-130 plane for a flight to Kuwait for their final withdrawal from Iraq at Sather Air Base on December 3, 2011 in Baghdad, Iraq.

WASHINGTON – The Pentagon will move some of its Europe-based forces further east and deploy additional U.S.-based troops to Europe, as the security situation on Ukraine's border with Russia continues to deteriorate.

President Joe Biden will send 2,000 troops in the U.S. to Poland and Germany, where they will join other troops. Another 1,000 who are already in Europe will be moved to Romania.

"These are not permanent moves. We respond to current conditions, we will adjust our posture as those conditions evolve," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Tuesday, announcing the deployment.

Kirby was unable to give a timeline of when the U.S. service members would deploy.

The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from CNBC.

The deployment comes as an estimated 100,000 Russian troops equipped with advanced weaponry line Ukraine's eastern border with Russia and northern border with Belarus, a Moscow ally.

Kirby explained the 3,000-strong troop deployment announced on Tuesday is separate from the 8,500 servicemembers announced last month.

The Pentagon placed 8,500 military personnel on "heightened alert" to deploy to Europe should NATO activate a response force.

The troops represent America's contribution to the 40,000-strong NATO Response Force, or NRF, whose activation requires approval of all 30 NATO members.

The Pentagon's top officials warned last week that the aftermath of a Russian invasion of Ukraine would be "horrific."

"Given the type of forces that are arrayed, the ground maneuver forces, the artillery, the ballistic missiles, the air forces, all of it packaged together. If that was unleashed on Ukraine, it would be significant, very significant, and it would result in a significant amount of casualties," Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff U.S. Army Gen. Mark Milley told reporters at the Pentagon on Friday.

"It would be horrific," added Milley.