The day has finally arrived – BBC Three is back, as TV audiences across the UK prepare to welcome the launch with open arms.

Six years after it was replaced with the streaming channel on BBC iPlayer, it is returning in a big way, amid new releases including Drag Race UK Versus The World, season two of hit rom-com series Starstruck and more.

Now that BBC Three has been revived as a linear channel, people across the nation will be poring over the schedule and TV guides to find out what new shows are due to be released, as well as checking where to find it on Freeview, Virgin Media and Sky.

As well as new releases in February, there are also several more upcoming shows coming to BBC Three with as yet unconfirmed release dates, including the adaptation of Sally Rooney’s book Conversations with Friends and Nicôle Lecky’s Mood.

Here’s what you need to know about BBC Three’s welcome return this month.

What channel is BBC Three on?

As well as finding BBC Three on BBC iPlayer, the channel can also be found on Freeview on Channel 23 or on Channel 109 for HD in England and Northern Ireland.

On Virgin Media in the UK, it’s on Channel 107 for HD in England and Northern Ireland, as well as Channel 157 for HD in Scotland and Wales.

Over on Freesat, it’s on Channel 107 and Channel 179, while on Sky in the UK, it can be found on Channel 117 in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, on Channel 141 in Scotland, on Channel 173 in London and on Channel 845.

What new shows are coming to the channel?

The international spin-off of RuPaul’s Drag Race will see former contestants from franchises around the world come together to compete for the ultimate crown: Queen of the Mothertucking World.

Fan-favourites in the line-up include Jujubee, Baga Chipz, Lemon and Pangina, so who knows who will take the title?

Drag Race UK Versus The World launches on Tuesday February 1 at 9pm on BBC Three and BBC iPlayer.

Eating With My Ex

One of the most awkward shows in existence is back with a series of celebrity specials, as stars including Too Hot To Handle’s Chloe Veitch and Made In Chelsea’s Miles Nazaire face their exes over a meal.

Could any reconciliations be on the cards? Or will drinks be thrown over the table?

Eating With My Ex returns on Tuesday February 1 at 8pm and 8.30pm on BBC Three.

Brand new sketch show Lazy Susan is launching on BBC Three, having originally debuted as a comedy short in 2020.

Starring Freya Parker and Celeste Dring, the show will see the pair play a variety of characters, from Megan and Michaela – who ‘don’t want any drama’ – to a couple of upbeat radio DJs.

The BBC said: ‘Expect smart commentary on our modern world and people falling over. Welcome to the world of Lazy Susan – as inviting as a warm bath, as unpredictable as a soufflé. Sketch comedy with heart, soul and just the right amount of weird.’

Cherry Valentine, one of the stars of RuPaul’s Drag Race UK series two, stars in her own documentary.

The performer, whose real name is George Ward, left the Gypsy community aged 18, having felt rejected after coming out as gay, but now wants to discover if he will be accepted as his true authentic self.

Cherry Valentine: Gypsy Queen and Proud airs on Tuesday February 1 at 10.30pm on BBC Three.

The Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) is currently taking place in Cameroon, having begun on January 9 and due to end on February 6.

The football tournament continues on BBC Three with coverage of the match between Burkina Faso and Senegal.

Burkina Faso vs Senegal in the Africa Cup of Nations airs on Wednesday February 2 at 7pm on BBC Three.

From February 4 to February 2020, the 24th Winter Olympics are taking place in Beijing, China.

While the main coverage from the broadcaster will be shown on BBC One and BBC Two, as well as BBC iPlayer, there will also be daily highlights programmes on BBC Two and BBC Three.

The BBC Three coverage of the Winter Olympics will begin on February 4 at 8pm.

Hit series Starstruck finally returns for season two, as co-writer Rose Matafeo reprises her role as lead Jessie, who becomes intertwined in an unexpected romance with movie star Tom (Nikesh Patel).

Emma Sidi returns as Rose’s best friend Kate, with Minnie Driver also back as Tom’s larger-than-life agent Cath.

Russell Tovey joins the cast as a new character, a ‘caricatured’ director that Tom meets in his line of work.

Starstruck season two premieres on Monday February 7 at 10pm on BBC Three, with the entire series being made available to watch on BBC iPlayer.

The Fast and the Farmer(ish)

If you were wondering how on earth The Fast and The Furious could be taken up a notch, look no further than The Fast and the Farmer(ish).

The new series will feature two teams going up against each other with ‘souped-up tractors’, where their driving skills and the power of their vehicles will be put to the test.

The Fast and the Farmer(ish) premieres on Wednesday February 9 at 9pm on BBC Three.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Starstruck’s Rose Matafeo reckons she’s too ‘boring’ to be an interesting celebrity: ‘I’m kind of like Matt Damon’

MORE : Drag Race UK Versus The World: From cult icons to international stars, meet the contestants