We’re not that far into 2022, but online word game Wordle has already become one of the success stories of the year.

The game, which sees players attempt to guess a five-letter word every day, went almost unnoticed when it was released last October – but has gone viral since adding a sharing option, allowing users to reveal how long it took them to guess that day’s word

And now it’s become an even bigger deal, after being bought by the New York Times for ‘a price in the low seven figures’.

All of which is great news for its creator – but many of the game’s fans have been left wondering whether they may now have to pay for their daily fix of Wordle.

Will the game remain free now it’s owned by the publication?

The good news is that Wordle will indeed remain free – at least for the time being.

The New York Times has confirmed that the game will ‘initially’ be free to play – but have given no word on whether they may eventually charge for it.

The publication has several word games available on its website, including its crossword, as well as Spelling Bee – which invites players to make as many words as possible from seven given letters.

Although some of these are free to play others, such as the crossword, are available to subscribers only – while other games only have limited access to free players.

Currently, an annual subscription to New York Times Games costs £3 a month – or £25 a year.

They said in a statement: ‘The Times remains focused on becoming the essential subscription for every English-speaking person seeking to understand and engage with the world. New York Times Games are a key part of that strategy.’

‘Our games already provide original, high-quality content and experiences every single day. Wordle will now play a part in that daily experience, giving millions more people around the world another reason to turn to The Times to meet their daily news and life needs.’

Who owns the New York Times?

The New York Times is owned by the New York Times company, a publicly traded company which has been governed by the Sulzberger family since 1896.

AG Sulzberger, and his father Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr, are the fifth and fourth generation of the family to have been in charge of the paper.

Who is the founder of Wordle?

The creator of Wordle is Josh Wardle, a Welsh-born software developer who previously made social experiments The Place and The Button for Reddit.

Wardle, who is now based in Brooklyn originally created the game for his partner, Palak Shah, after the two of them began playing word games on the New York Times website – including Spelling Bee and the crossword – during the pandemic.

He initially shared the game with family members on WhatsApp before unleashing it on the rest of the world – where it has gone from 90 to over 300,00 users in the space of just a couple of months.

It became popular after a user in New Zealand shared her results in a series of emojis on Twitter – with Wardle adding a function which allowed users to share theirs in a grid, showing which letters they had correctly guessed but without actually revealing the word.

Speaking of the acquisition Wardle has said that the game – which he previously ruled out turning into an app – will remain free to play, and that people’s playing history will also be preserved.

‘The game has gotten bigger than I ever imagined (which I suppose isn’t much of a feat given I made the game for an audience of 1),’ he said in a statement on Twitter.

‘It has been incredible to watch the game bring so much joy to so many and I feel so grateful for the personal stories some of you have shared with me – from Wordle uniting distant family members, to provoking friendly rivalries, to supporting medical recoveries.

‘Given this, I am incredibly pleased to announce that I’ve reached an agreement with the New York Times for them to take over running Wordle going forward.

‘When the game moves over to the NYT site, it will be free to play for everyone, and I am working with them to make sure your wins and streaks will be preserved’.

He finished by adding: ‘Thank you for playing and making Wordle an unforgettable experience.’

MORE : Wordle Archive lets you replay all the previous puzzles

Follow Metro across our social channels, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram

Share your views in the comments below