As a long-time tech stock analyst at The Motley Fool, every day I wake up and get the chance to help everyday people like you identify and profit from some of the world’s most promising investment opportunities.

It’s hard to believe, but 2022 marks the 29-year anniversary of the founding of The Motley Fool by those two brothers, David and Tom Gardner.

It’s truly amazing that Tom and David were able to go from publishing an investment newsletter for 300 or so subscribers out of the shed behind David’s house…

To serving millions of hardworking investors like you around the globe from offices in far-flung countries like Australia, Germany, the United Kingdom and Japan.

David and Tom have put together a heck of a run. And since I have the luxury of working with them, I know what they’re most proud of is their ability to consistently lead investors to some of the most life-changing investment returns the market has ever seen. I’m talking, of course, about companies like:

Those are actual investment recommendations we have shared with The Motley Fool community over the years – and the list goes on!

These incredible returns show the importance of buying and holding great companies - a core tenet here at The Motley Fool.

And that’s why I’m writing this today.

Because this track record, combined with a historically very profitable stock buy signal, could change the way you invest forever.

And that buy signal is flashing right now.

You see, twice every month, the analyst team at The Motley Fool researches a brand-new stock and recommends it to members.

And as you’ve already seen, these picks could lead to life-changing returns.

However, every so often, we come across a stock so good…that we just have to double down on it.

Many of us around the office have come to call this re-recommendation a “Home Run Buy” sign.

And one stock in particular is simply begging for another recommendation.

But this swing for the fences approach…this isn’t some shot in the dark.

Some last ditch bet at a poker table.

This investing trick is straight from the playbook of one of the greatest investors of all-time: Peter Lynch.

“Selling your winners and holding your losers is like cutting the flowers and watering the weeds,” – Peter Lynch

Here at The Motley Fool, we take that same approach – add to your winners. And this isn’t some everyday occurrence.

But the 96 times it has happened, the results have been spectacular:
• Netflix is up % since this "Home Run Buy" signal flashed in June 2007
• Tesla, which received the “Home Run Buy” sign in November 2012, is up % since.

In fact, across the 96 stocks with this total conviction ... the average return is an astounding 693% … crushing the S&P 500 by nearly 5x!

Of course, we would never describe any stock as a “sure thing,” but the details behind this tiny little internet company are impressive:
• It’s smaller than 1/100th the size of Google.
• Each one of our recommendations is crushing the market.
• Its young CEO has already banked $575 million on this stock since its IPO.

This company stands to profit as more and more people ditch cable for streaming TV. And in fact, we believe this company’s crucial technology could represent the final nail in the coffin for traditional cable.

Now this isn’t some competitor to Netflix, Hulu, or Amazon Prime Video as you might expect. Instead, this company sits in the middle of the advertising market, which is more than 10X bigger than the online streaming industry.

In an interview with Tom Gardner and his team, this company’s CEO called the current moment “the most exciting in the history of advertising.”

Of course, any CEO could say that simply to build up hype and push the company’s stock price higher ... but this CEO is putting his money where his mouth is.

He’s betting his fortune – $575,715,640 to be exact – on what he’s calling cable TV’s “ticking time bomb.”

Despite this company’s jaw-dropping success over the past few years, most investors have still never even heard of this company’s name!

That’s right, while everyone on CNBC and in The Wall Street Journal is busy talking about blue-chip stocks like Apple and Facebook, this significantly smaller (yet faster-growing!) company is flying almost completely under the radar.

And, while most investors have been busy pouring more money into only these well-known tech stocks, we have been doing what the world's greatest investors do — looking for the NEXT stock that could deliver returns of +1,000%, +2,000%, or even +5,000%.

That’s why we’ve been pounding the table on this “Home Run Buy” stock I’ve begun to tell you about today – urging members of The Motley Fool investment community to buy shares before they potentially skyrocket.

Look, I understand this all may sound too good to be true, but the returns for “Home Run Buy” stocks simply have been too good to ignore – and there’s no guarantee that the investing world ever sees this buy signal flash again.

Which is exactly why I want to show you the hard numbers behind this incredible stock and invite you to hear more about this strategy directly from our team of analysts – that way, you can decide for yourself if you want to buy shares of this fast-growing company for your portfolio.

I’m only sharing the details of the stock with members of The Motley Fool's flagship investing service, Motley Fool Stock Advisor.

Now, if you're not familiar with Motley Fool Stock Advisor service, it’s the award-winning online investing service created to provide easy-to-follow, monthly stock recommendations to individual investors.

That's right! Each and every month, over 1 million investors tune in to discover which stocks we believe investors should be buying shares of today.

So, due to the urgency of this recent development, we put together a painstakingly researched report that shows you why this one stock could be a "Home Run Buy."

It reveals the reasons why we think every forward-thinking investor should be paying close attention to this revolutionary new industry and what might be a potentially life-changing investment opportunity.

This report is free to you when you sign up for Stock Advisor today.

Simply enter your email address below to learn about this one "Home Run Buy" stock we think you need in your portfolio.

"Ultimate Buy" Returns are as of November 12, 2021. The 96 stock occurrences refer to all re-recommendations inside of Motley Fool Stock Advisor. All other returns are updated during market hours. John Mackey, CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Eric Bleeker owns shares of Amazon and NVIDIA. The Motley Fool owns shares of Amazon, Baidu, Netflix, NVIDIA, Salesforce.com, and Tesla. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. The Motley Fool respects your privacy and strive to be transparent about our data collection practices. We use your information to customize the site for you, to contact you about your membership, provide you with promotional information, and in aggregate to help us better understand how the service is used. Past performance is not a predictor of future results. Individual investment results may vary. All investing involves risk of loss.