The month of February begins with Venus and Mercury moving direct, helpful for communications and healing. The Sun and Saturn are exactly conjunct in Capricorn this month, amplifying the need for self-discipline, maturity, and authentic expression. Kala Sarpa yoga occurs off and on this month, and demands high ethics and neutrality in our world in order for us to evolve. Mars and Venus conjunction brings the desire for passion and creativity in our lives and in our work. Mars exalted in Capricorn tests our inner courage and strength.

Venus just ended its retrograde phase on January 29, 2022, having been retrograde since December 19, 2021. During the Venus retrograde period, we were doing deep inner healing around our personal relationships and values. Now with Venus direct, we may have more clarity to act on what truly matters in our lives with an open heart. We connect and honor those we love with great compassion and gratitude.

Mercury goes direct the evening of February 3, 2022 MST, having been retrograde since January 14, 2022. As Mercury slowly moves forward, delays or frustrations we experienced when Mercury was retrograde now start to dissolve. With Mercury direct on February 3, we feel more confident to resolve any miscommunications or disagreements that occurred during the retrograde phase.

Saturn is especially close to the Sun at the beginning of February, with the exact conjunct occurring at 21 degrees Capricorn on February 4, 2022. This means that Saturn is combust the Sun, indicating the integrity of Saturn is compromised. We may experience issues with impatience, self-discipline, and finding our truth. Power struggles can arise as our desire for individual self-expression increases. We are prompted to listen to our soul’s yearnings. We may also see this on a global/political level as well, in our quest for equality and balance in our world. Saturn transits tend to give us a reality check, with the ultimate purpose of guiding us to express more authenticity, maturity, and committed purpose in our lives.

Kala Sarpa yoga occurs from January 27 to February 9, 2022, and again from February 23 to March 8, 2022. Kala Sarpa yoga occurs when all the planets are sandwiched between the nodes of the Moon, Rahu and Ketu. This yoga is sometimes called “the snake of time” and requires us to respond to life with the highest of ethics and morals, or we suffer. We feel the effect on a psychological level, bringing some dissatisfaction and increased sensitivity. Sometimes we experience less free will and the ability to move forward with this combination. Sudden or unexpected events that are out of our control can occur during Kala Sarpa yoga periods. However, the benefits of this yoga can be positive and growth-producing on a spiritual level if we respond to life with kindness, respect, and humility. Be present with no resistance and open to new possibilities.

Mars and Venus are conjunct in Sagittarius most of February indicating strong passions and creative energies this month. We can feel more vital and enlivened. Then on February 27 and 28, Mars and Venus move to the earth sign of Capricorn, where they are conjunct exactly at 0 to 1 degree of Capricorn. Be aware that when Mars and Venus are conjunct, we may experience greater impatience especially if one’s needs are not met. Frustrations or heated discussions with others can manifest, so be mindful.

On February 26, 2022 Mars, planet of courage, independence, and self-assertion, moves to its exalted sign of Capricorn until April 7, 2022. This is a powerful transit for action-oriented Mars. With Mars in Capricorn, we experience warrior energy that can be invincible, quick-acting, and very efficient. On the shadow side, Mars in Capricorn can be quite relentless, frustrated, overbearing, and militaristic. Use the positive energies of Mars and become more self-disciplined and focused. Improve your stamina with physical activities like yoga, and be an advocate for life-affirming projects or organizations.

Debra Infante is a practicing Vedic astrologer and teacher. She began her studies of Vedic astrology in 1995, and was certified by The American College of Vedic Astrology as an approved teacher (Level I) in September 1999. She has taught Vedic astrology to the students in the yoga teacher trainings at 7 Centers Yoga in Sedona, AZ from 2002 to 2020. Debra can be reached at (928) 639-0623 or dinfante108@gmail.com for astrological consultations by phone or in person. Contact her to receive her monthly Vedic astrology article. You can also find her at http://ayurveda-sedona.com/yoga-and-vedic-astrology/about-vedic-astrology/