A woman who came out as gay six years into her marriage to her husband has revealed they are still together – partly for the sake of their children.

Nicolette Popa came out to Ryan in the summer of 2020 after six years of keeping her sexuality a secret – with her 27-year-old partner admitting he ‘wasn’t surprised’ by the revelation.

The 26-year-old says she still believes civil servant Ryan is her soulmate and best friend because they are each other’s ‘biggest supporters’.

Instead of getting embroiled in a hostile split, the duo still live together and co-parent Jace Popa, five, and four-year-old Clay Popa.

Since revealing their unusual parenting set-up on TikTok, the delivery driver has received praise from other gay women in straight marriages for demonstrating how to successfully co-parent.

‘For right now, what we do works. We’re trying to figure out our careers and trying to make sure that our kids have the best outcome,’ says Nicolette, from North Carolina, US.

‘Ryan’s often gone so he doesn’t get to see the kids often. I’m trying to figure out my new career, while raising our kids. We’re prioritising family life over the dating side of things.’

Both sides of the couple’s family support their decision to remain married, although some online users ‘can’t wrap their heads around it’, blasting Nicolette for ‘wasting’ Ryan’s time.

‘It’s about making sure the kids are happy, making sure they know they’re loved and for them to have both parents around as much as possible,’ she adds.

‘Me and Ryan have maintained this friendship, he’ll always be my best friend.

‘We got married when I was 19 and he was 20. We’ve been together basically through all of our 20s, and he’s that person I’ve been around constantly.

‘I feel like he’ll always be my soulmate, just from a different perspective.’

Nicolette came out to Ryan around 18 months ago, while the pair where living in Japan and in the midst of lockdown restrictions.

‘We were just confined to our house, so we spent a lot of time together,’ she says.

‘We learnt a lot about ourselves, so I think that was part of the big push for us to have that conversation.’

Nicolette knew she was a lesbian while growing up, but she was fearful of coming out because of where she was raised.

‘Here in America it can be very conservative,’ she explains.

‘My family are definitely conservative, we’re from the Midwest so it’s very “country” out there. We grew up hunting and fishing and all that stuff, Ryan’s family are pretty religious too.

‘It wasn’t really a thing to be gay when I was growing up. Deep down I thought about it, but I was terrified.

‘But as I got older, it just felt like I had this weight on my chest. I knew that there was something that I needed to figure out.’

She knew she had to talk to her husband about how she was feeling.

‘He was basically like, “okay that’s cool, women are great”,’ says Nicolette.

‘This was six years into our marriage. When I came out, it was just to him for a while, because I wasn’t sure how we wanted to navigate it.’

Ryan has been incredibly supportive of Nicolette from the outset, and says he even saw signs that his wife was gay before she opened up to him.

Ryan says: ‘It wasn’t a shock when Nicolette came out. I started to have suspicions but I wasn’t going to ask, I was going to wait for her to tell me herself.

‘She really emphasised being a tomboy, the way she was dressing, she was embracing it more.

‘It wasn’t like a night-to-day transformation, she went from wearing T-shirts to button downs.

‘My family were really supportive, and they still are. We still go on family holidays with them, we all get along really well.’

Given her conservative upbringing, Nicolette had initially been apprehensive about coming out to her family.

‘I was terrified to come out,’ she says. ‘I called up my mum one night while I was working and said, “I just need to really tell you this”. I was crying and everything.

‘She was like, “I love you no matter what”. She was kind of taking the blame because she felt like she was the one who made me feel afraid to be accepted.

‘I grew up feeling like I wouldn’t be accepted, even though I was.’

After making videos referencing their living situation on TikTok, Nicolette has found a surprising audience of women who relate to her situation.

‘I didn’t expect it at all to blow up because to us, it’s just normal,’ she says.

‘To all of our friends, that’s just the way we are. But I guess when I thought about it, it is interesting because we’re so out of the norm.

‘The reaction on TikTok has been mostly supportive. Occasionally we’ll get hate comments from people who don’t understand.

‘It’s really cool to see that a lot of women who were in my exact situation have found my videos and commented.

‘It shows them that there is an upside and that co-parenting can be possible.’

Most TikTok commenters praised Nicolette and Ryan for working to co-parent their young sons despite the change in circumstances.

One wrote: ‘I love this for your family! It’s great having such a solid friendship and great co-parenting relationship.’

Another commented: ‘This makes me so happy. I’m going through something similar and my husband is in full support of me. It’s amazing to have a supportive partner.’

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.

MORE : The UK’s most viewed properties on Zoopla: A castle, cliffside abode and seaside retreat

MORE : Toxic positivity: Why you shouldn’t say ‘at least…’ in response to bad news

MORE : Overnight Weetabix is the latest TikTok food craze and it ‘tastes like cheesecake’