Piers Morgan has branded Whoopi Goldberg’s comments about the Holocaust ‘insane’ and questions if she will ‘lose her job’ similar to Sharon Osbourne following her own race row.

Whoopi, 66, sparked outrage when she claimed on The View that the Holocaust ‘wasn’t about race’ but instead about ‘man’s inhumanity to man’.

Around six million people were murdered by Hitler’s regime in Nazi Germany during World War II and his hatred of Jewish people stemmed from Nazis believing themselves to be an Aryan ‘master race’.

Reacting to Whoopi’s controversial statement, which she has since apologised for, Piers tweeted: ‘WTF? This is insane. The extermination of 6 million Jews wasn’t about race???

‘Will any rock stars or renegade royals now boycott Whoopi Goldberg and/or ABC for this dangerous misinformation?’

He later followed it up with: ‘Sharon Osbourne was fired from The Talk for defending me against a fake charge of racism.

‘Whoopi Goldberg said on The View yesterday that the Holocaust “wasn’t about race”, which for Jewish people is about as racist a comment as anyone could make. Bet she doesn’t lose her job.’

Piers, 56, was referring to the scandal last year which saw Sharon quit her chat show The Talk after getting into a heated dispute with co-host Sherri Shepherd live on-air.

Sharon demanded Sherri ‘educate’ her about racism while arguing that Piers’ fierce criticism of Meghan Markle wasn’t about the colour of her skin.

The former Good Morning Britain presenter then added: ‘What Whoopi Goldberg said was far worse than anything Joe Rogan said – will celebrities be boycotting The View or do woke stars get a pass?’

Joe Rogan has been at the centre of controversy with his popular Spotify podcast accused of spreading misinformation about the Covid vaccine.

The backlash towards Whoopi was sparked after Monday’s episode of The View, where the panel discussed a Tennessee school district’s decision to ban the graphic novel Maus due to ‘inappropriate language’.

Maus depicts Jews as mice and Nazis as cats and has won numerous literary awards. The school board said they opted to pull the book from shelves as it features profanity, nudity and depiction of suicide that they deemed to be inappropriate for 13 year olds.

Whoopi said: ‘Let’s be truthful about it because Holocaust isn’t about race. It’s not about race. It’s not about race. It’s about man’s inhumanity to man.

‘These are two white groups of people! The minute you turn it into race it goes down this alley. Let’s talk about it for what it is. It’s how people treat each other. It doesn’t matter if you’re Black or white, Jews, it’s each other.’

The Sister Act star has since released a statement taking accountability for her false statement: ‘I should have said it is about both. As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, “The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race”. I stand corrected.

‘The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused.’

She concluded: ‘Written with my sincerest apologies, Whoopi Goldberg.’

Whoopi joined The View in 2007 and currently appears alongside Joy Behar, Sarah Haines and Sunny Hostin, while Ana Navarro is a guest host.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Whoopi Goldberg apologises after saying Holocaust ‘wasn’t about race’ on The View: ‘The Jewish people always have my support’

MORE : Good Morning Britain viewers call out blunder as they get Josh Hartnett’s name wrong