The world of elite football is unwelcoming to women. Intimidated as spectators, derided as WAGs, dismissed as commentators, ignored as competitors.

Despite that, women have fought for space in the beautiful game, as fans or players. Football is a common language, we say, that transcends gender or nation.

But the ongoing misogyny is a bitter pill. The well-documented links between male football fans and domestic violence are a travesty. And with the allegations of rape and assault against Mason Greenwood, the 20-year-old Manchester United forward, they can no longer be ignored. Pundits wonder: is this football’s #MeToo moment?

On Sunday, a woman posted photos on Instagram of her bruised body and injured face, showing her bleeding from the mouth. The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, included the caption: ‘To everyone who wants to know what Mason Greenwood does to me.’

She also uploaded an audio file, which feature a woman’s voice saying to a man (who she appears to calls Mason): ‘I don’t want to have sex.’ A male voice replies: ‘I asked you politely and you wouldn’t do it, so what else do you want me to do?’

The voice then says: ‘Push me again one more time and watch what happens to you.’

Later, Greenwood was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault, and has been suspended by the club ‘until further notice’.

At first I felt nothing more than the weary numbness familiar to any woman who follows the news cycle. The endless round of allegations, denials, ‘cancellations’, (sometimes) charges and (rarely) convictions of men in the public eye.

‘Not another one,’ we say almost jokingly, crossing one more male role model off the list and hoping the next storm will pass over industries we care about or men we used to admire. But when it comes to football, this case could be a watershed.

First, there’s the social media aspect. If a picture tells a thousand words, multiply that by a million for viral images. Then, there’s the audio clip. The goosebumps up my arm, the nausea in the bottom of my gut, at the horribly familiar entitlement of the words – whoever said them.

A new generation of socially conscious and social-media savvy players with enormous platforms have already taken note. Several high-profile footballers, such as Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford, do not follow Greenwood on social media. His club, Manchester United, will not be providing him with legal counsel.

Although Greenwood is yet to be charged – let alone convicted – the fact that Manchester United acted as quickly as they did to suspend him while the police investigation takes place is, depressingly, something that should be applauded.

In 2016, midfielder Adam Johnson (formerly Manchester City and Sunderland) was found guilty of sexual activity with a 15-year-old girl. His club continued to defend him until he made admissions during the trial, and he was sentenced to five years in jail. He is reportedly still earning £5,000 a week in property investment.

These are the tips of only a few icebergs in an ocean of violence, sleaze, infidelity, sexual impropriety and arrogant impunity that male football embodies. You see it in the behaviour of the players, on and off the pitch; you see it in the fans, at matches or at home, and you see it in the treatment of women’s football in general.

You can make the argument that a pool of men as large as the world of football will inevitably include its share of predators. Just as a similar pool of women will include victims.

Male footballers are also victims of rape and sexual abuse – in 2016 the UK football sex abuse scandal was blown wide open, with multiple victims of paedophile Barry Bennell coming forward to expose a horror show of abuse and cover-ups.

But, in the world of elite male football, where international esteem clashes with huge monetary value and unclear jurisdiction, holding predators to account becomes even more difficult. And so aside from a few high-profile cases, the systemic problem is arguably swept under the rug.

Football is increasingly taking visible stands against social injustice, homophobia (with rainbow laces and armbands) and racism (with bent knees). But the links to domestic violence have gone untackled. And the general reluctance of male footballers and clubs (with only a few exceptions) to support female players in their battle for better pay and opportunity is a huge red flag.

The truth is, this isn’t even football’s #MeToo moment. For the past few years, women’s sides have been increasingly vocal about their experiences of abuse, assault and harassment.

There have been extensive allegations of abuse against US coach Paul Riley, reports of bullying and sexual harassment by Australia forward Lisa De Vanna, and a joint report by the whole of Venezuela’s national team (two dozen women) of sexual abuse from their coach.

Football’s #MeToo moment has been here for a while. But the fact that Mason Greenwood’s case might be the first to really change anything simply proves the point that the play was always foul.

Do you have a story you’d like to share? Get in touch by emailing jess.austin@metro.co.uk.

Share your views in the comments below.

MORE : Nike suspend their relationship with Mason Greenwood following Manchester United star’s arrest

MORE : Manchester United have been ‘concerned’ about Mason Greenwood’s ‘ego’ for some time

MORE : Manchester United opted to keep Jesse Lingard following Mason Greenwood’s arrest