Phillip Schofield has confirmed his appearance on this weekend’s Dancing On Ice could be in doubt after receiving a positive Covid test.

The This Morning presenter was absent from Tuesday morning’s programme, with Alison Hammond filling in for him alongside Rochelle Humes.

Phil is now in isolation as he waits for a negative test before being able to return to his hosting duties alongside Holly Willoughby.

However, he noted this could impact his stint on Dancing On Ice, as he caught up with Rochelle and Alison via the wonders of video call.

He told the pair: ‘We’re a little bit worried about Dancing On Ice, we’re cutting it a bit fine for Sunday.’

Phil wouldn’t be the first person to have to miss an episode of the ITV series due to Covid, with contestant Bez struck down between week one and two.

But he was able to return after spending five days in isolation and back to perform in week three with his partner Angela Egan.

Updating the pair on his symptoms, Phil told his co-stars: ‘I’m fine, I haven’t even got a sore throat, I sneezed twice and that’s it!’

Alison joked he’d put ‘orange juice’ on his test so he wouldn’t have to appear after the presenter showed off his positive lateral flow on camera.

‘With every cloud is a silver lining,’ his stand-in teased. ‘I’m going to hold the fort.

‘Sit back, enjoy your time at home, relax, I’ve got this bag!’

‘We’ll try and keep the show on the air,’ Rochelle added.

Phil replied: ‘Twitter is going to be alight with people saying thank god he’s off the air, this is much better.’

Rochelle also expressed her surprise at managing to avoid contracting the virus, sharing: ‘We’ve been here together for two weeks, and I’m fine!’

She’s been filling in for Holly Willoughby in recent episodes, telling viewers she’d be ‘keeping her seat warm’ for two weeks, from January 17.

This Morning airs weekdays from 10am on ITV.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Lorraine Kelly staggered by Rihanna’s New York pregnancy photoshoot revealing baby bump: ‘It’s freezing!’

MORE : Alison Hammond confirmed as Phillip Schofield’s replacement on This Morning as he battles Covid