Eagle-eyed Good Morning Britain viewers have spotted an on-air blunder after Josh Hartnett was called ‘John’ in a caption.

The actor appeared on Good Morning Britain on Tuesday to discuss his upcoming Sky Atlantic series The Fear Index, when he shared his thoughts on the police investigation into the parties alleged to have taken place at Downing Street while lockdown rules were in force

Addressing the investigation into the alleged parties which took place in Downing Street during the Covid-19 lockdown, Josh joked: ‘From one very intense subject to another, I guess!’

Host Susanna Reid then quizzed Josh on whether he has been ‘gripped’ by what has been happening in Parliament, adding: ‘Do you think they should be afraid?’

Josh replied: ‘How could you not be? It’s all that’s on the news. Yeah, I mean of course they [the government] should be afraid, this doesn’t look good.

‘People were having a very difficult time at that time. It’s hard to believe that they were living it up.’

The Fear Index is based on the 2011 novel of the same name by British author Robert Harris, set in the 24-hour period after the general election in 2010 and the Flash Crash stock market crash.

The series follows a group of employees at Hoffmann Investment Technologies, a fictional hedge fund operating in Geneva, and how they deal with the events.

Speaking about his own fears, Josh admitted: ‘This show taps into a fear of mine and that is unchecked power.’

He added: ‘I think something that we all have to fear these days is the powerful having too much power.’

Josh now lives in Surrey after having taken a break from Hollywood, but has been working on new projects including a film with Guy Ritchie.

As well as enjoying his views on politics, GMB viewers also spotted that the actor’s name had been spelled wrong in a caption earlier in the show, calling him ‘John’ instead of Josh.

They commented: ‘I’m sure it’s Josh Hartnett and not John Harnett’ and ‘Don’t you mean Josh Hartnett @GMB?’

Another joked: ‘Coming up on @gmb. Josh Hartnett on why he left Hollywood behind and probably hoping he hasn’t been forgotten…’

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Josh Hartnett is back and ready to mess with your mind in gripping new Sky thriller The Fear Index

MORE : Ben Wishaw actually learned to perform C-section for role as junior doctor in Adam Kay’s This Is Going To Hurt