Iguanas are getting so cold in parts of the USA that they are falling out of their tree.

A (relatively) cold snap in Florida, known as the sunshine state, has seen the cold-blooded lizards losing their grip, with their bodies essentially ‘shutting down’.

Most will survive, but they are largely unable to function in the unusually chilly weather, which has seen record-low temperatures hovering around freezing.

When the animals fall from their trees, they often wake up to the sun’s warmth – but have been unable to do so in the freezing conditions.

Zoologist Stacey Cohen, a reptile expert at Florida’s Palm Beach Zoo, explained the phenomenon to television station WPBF.

She said: ‘Their bodies basically start to shut down where they lose their functions and so they are up in the trees on the branches sleeping and then because it gets so cold, they lose that ability to hang on and then they do fall out of trees a lot.’

Although most of the reptiles will likely survive this period of immobilisation, the zoologist said freezing temperatures were a threat to their survival.

Ms Cohen pointed to a cold snap in 2010 that wiped out a large number of the population.

‘Cold is a very, very life-threatening thing for them because they are from parts of Central and South America close to the equator where it always stays very warm,’ she added.

Green iguanas are not native to Florida, according to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, and are instead believed to have been accidentally introduced as stowaways in cargo ships.

The invasive species can weigh up to 7.5 kg and measure over 1.5 metres in length – with residents warned to be aware of them falling in recent days.

The U.S. National Weather Service Miami-South Florida tweeted: ‘Iguanas are cold-blooded.

‘They slow down or become immobile when temps drop into the 40s (4-9 Celsius).

‘They may fall from trees, but they are not dead’.

The animals got so cold this weekend that countless animals could be seen barely moving on the ground.

The National Weather Service reported that West Palm Beach hit about 3°C, the coldest morning there for the past 12 years.

Further up the east coast, in Vero Beach, a joint record low was reported at around -1°C – equalling a record that has stood since 1978.

The iguanas are not the first animals to take a battering from the cold this winter.

Hundreds of thousands of farmed fish died from thermal shock in Greece last week, when heavy snow crippled the country.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.

MORE : Runaway iguana rescued from pub after scaling roof for a sunbathing session