New murder charges were filed Wednesday against the mother and brother of Damari Perry, the 6-year-old North Chicago boy whose body was found in Gary, Indiana, after he was reported missing by family members last month.

Lake County State's Attorney Eric Rinehart said he will be seeking sentences of life in prison for both of the accused because of the heinous nature of the crimes.

Damari's older brother, Jeremiah Perry, 20, and mom, Jannie Perry, 38, jointly were indicted by a Lake County grand jury on eight felony counts of murder, as well as felony counts of aggravated battery of a child, dismembering a human body, conspiracy, aggravated domestic battery, concealment of a homicidal death, endangering the life or health of a child, abuse of a corpse and obstructing justice.

Jannie Perry also faces one felony count of failure to report the death or disappearance of a child.

Prosecutors said the evidence shows Jannie and Jeremiah Perry formed and enacted a plan to severely punish Damari through prolonged exposure in a cold shower.

Rinehart said prosecutors felt Damari's final minutes warrant the more severe sentencing that accompanies such "brutal and heinous" circumstances.

"The defendants' stunning failure to seek medical attention demonstrates their intent to end Damari's life," Rinehart said. "Transporting and burning the body as part of a cover-up also warranted the additional serious charges we filed today."

Initially, Jeremiah Perry was charged with aggravated battery causing great bodily harm to a child under 12, concealing a homicidal death and obstructing justice. Jannie initially was charged with first-degree murder, concealment of a homicidal death and obstructing justice in her son's death.

Jannie Perry remains in jail on $5 million bail, which means she would need to post $500,000 to be released before her trial. Jeremiah Perry remains in jail on $3 million bail. Both are scheduled to appear before a judge for arraignment hearings Monday.

Another older brother, whose name has been withheld by authorities because he is a juvenile, is being charged in Lake County juvenile court.

North Chicago police said last month Damari's body, naked and wrapped in a plastic trash bag, was discovered by FBI agents and North Chicago detectives on Jan. 8 near an abandoned house on the 700 block of Van Buren Street in Gary. Authorities said Perry was reported missing Jan. 5 by his mother and a sibling.

The family initially provided information to authorities indicating Damari might be missing in Skokie. But investigators discovered contradictory evidence and shifted attention to the boy's North Chicago home.

Because of the involvement of out-of-state witnesses, the FBI headed the investigation. Authorities said witness interviews, including multiple juveniles, led to the discovery of Damari's body.

The Lake County, Indiana, coroner's office said last month Damari died of hypothermia. A postmortem examination found an extremely cold core temperature and partially frozen internal organs, the coroner's office said in a news release.

The exam also found scattered discoloration of the skin on the right leg and postmortem thermal injury or charring over the body.