More than half of likely voters surveyed said they believed President Joe Biden would go down as one of the worst American presidents in history.

A survey released Wednesday by Rasmussen Reports and The National Pulse found that 54 per cent of likely voters believed Biden would be ranked one of the worst presidents in history, while 15 per cent said he'd be among the best.

Both former Presidents Donald Trump and Barack Obama performed better in the poll.

For Trump, 41 per cent said he'd be rated one of the best presidents in U.S. history, while 43 per cent said he'd be considered one of the worst.

People didn't feel as fervent about Obama, with 34 per cent saying Obama would be considered one of the best and 33 per cent saying he'd be one of the worst.

The survey was conducted on Sunday and Monday and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 per cent.

Party politics clearly played into how the president and ex-presidents were perceived.

Seventy-four per cent of Republicans and 62 per cent of unaffiliated voters believed Biden will go down in history as one of the worst.

However, Democratic voters didn't provide a counterweight for that, as just 27 per cent said Biden would be rated among the best.

Another 39 per cent said he'd be considered average, while 28 per cent of Democrats said he'd be among the worst.

Democrats did rate Trump poorly, with 68 per cent saying he'd be considered one of the country's worst presidents.

At the same time, 68 per cent of Republicans said Trump would be rated among the best.

Obama rated higher among Democrats than Biden, with 57 per cent saying he would be remembered as one of the country's top presidents.

Voters under 40 were more likely to rate Obama among the top presidents.

Obama's 2008 White House victory was propelled by getting out the youth vote.

Additionally, more black voters - 54 per cent - than white voters - 31 per cent - put Obama among the best.

Obama made history as the country's first black president.

Just 18 per cent of black voters believe Biden, who served as Obama's vice president, will be one of the best presidents in history.

That number is still slightly ahead of white voters, where 15 per cent ranked Biden among the best.

White voters were more likely to say Trump was among the best presidents.

Forty-one per cent of white voters rated Trump up top, compared to 21 per cent of black voters.