Former President Donald Trump mocked Sen. Lindsey Graham as a 'RINO' after Graham rebuked his suggestion that he might pardon Jan. 6th rioters if he got reelected – in just the latest turn in their soap opera partnership.

Trump went after the South Carolina senator – a friend and advisor during Trump's term who counseled trump on Miami golf greens and carried his banner during the Russia probe – in an appearance on the conservative Newsmax network.

But Graham, who has gone through numerous contortions while navigating Trump's actions and comments while serving in senior Senate roles, stood firm on his latest comments even after Trump said he 'didn't know what the hell he's talking about.'

'As a conservative, I firmly believe in law and order and support the police,' Graham said in a statement. 'I reject politically motivated violence in all forms,' he said in a statement that mentioned Antifa, Black Lives Matter, and the Proud Boys - but not the former president who insulted him.

'I was in the Capitol on January 6 and know it was one of the darkest days in American history. I stand with the police officers who protect our streets, federal courthouses, and the United States Capitol against rioters. They deserve our respect and support and I will not second-guess the decisions they made under dire circumstances,' Graham continued. 'For us to remain a nation of laws, not men, we must speak with one voice when it comes to politically motivated violence.'

Then he referenced complaints about the treatment of Jan. 6th defendants, who are charged from offenses ranging from trespassing in a federal building to assaulting a police officer or seditious conspiracy.

'All Americans are entitled to have a speedy trial and their day in court, but those who actively engage in violence for whatever political cause must be held accountable and not be forgiven,' said Graham.

The latest tiff came after Trump's own comments about Jan. 6th defendants sparked outrage from members of the committee probing the Capitol riot.

Graham told CBS 'Face the Nation' Sunday the remarks were 'inappropriate' and that those who breached the Capitol deserve to 'go to jail and get the book thrown at them, because they deserve it.'

That put him on the wrong side of Trump, and allied him with Trump nemesis Rep. Liz Cheney – just as Trump was trying to rally support for Jan. 6th 'patriots' and promoting demonstrations in Washington and New York should prosecutions against him advance.

'No, I don't want to send any signal that it was OK to defile the Capitol,' said Graham. 'I don't want to do anything that would make this more likely in the future,' he added.

Trump did not hold back after Graham's latest contortion.

He hit Graham with the same label he has used to go after other Republicans like Sen. Mitt Romney who challenged him on impeachment or matters related to Jan. 6th – calling him the term for a 'Republican In Name Only.'

'Well, Lindsey Graham’s wrong. I mean, Lindsey’s a nice guy, but he’s a RINO,' Trump told his interviewer. 'Lindsey Graham doesn’t know what the hell he’s talking about if he says that,' he said in comments that aired Tuesday night, then ricocheted around the Internet.

Trump's blast at Graham is just the latest chapter in their complicated political relationship. Graham called Trump a 'jackass' after Trump insulted his POW hero Sen. John McCain by saying he liked soldiers 'who weren’t captured.'

Then he got behind Trump's 2016 campaign and became one of his most loyal supporters.

Trump infamously gave out Graham's cell phone number during a campaign rally. The two men patched things up, and Graham became a key advisor and frequent golf companion.

Then on Jan. 6th, 2020 Graham denounced unproven claims of fraud that were tossed out of courts and called Biden the 'legitimate president of the United States' following the Capitol riot.

'It is over!' Graham yelled on the Senate floor.

'Maybe I above all others in this body need to say this: Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are lawfully elected and will become the president and vice president of the United States on Jan. 20th,' Graham said.

Trump's slap at Graham fueled further mockery online. ' Just imagine spending that much time licking Trump’s boots and then hearing this... ' wrote Matt Willstein of the DailyBeast.

Podcaster Brian Tyler Cohen tweeted: 'lmao Lindsey Graham sold out his soul for this guy only to get thrown under the bus like he's nothing.'

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell also pushed back at Trump's dangling of pardons – which a Democratic Jan. 6th panel member said could amount to an effort to tamper with potential witnesses.

'I would not be in favor of shortening any of the sentences for any of the people who pleaded guilty to crimes,' said McConnell.

When he was in office, Trump frequently used his pardon power even when it came to former associates and advisors who became entangled in the Russia probe. Among those he pardoned are former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn, former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, longtime informal advisor Roger Stone, and former campaign chair Paul Manafort – with Manafort, Bannon and Stone getting pardons during Trump's last days in office.

Trump said at his weekend rally in Texas: 'Another thing we'll do, and so many people have been asking me about it, if I run and if I win we will treat those people from January 6 fairly.'

'And if it requires pardons we will give them pardons because they are being treated so unfairly,' he said.