Donald Trump floated the idea of issuing a blanket pardon for people who took part in the Jan. 6th Capitol riot during his last days in office, according to a new report – which comes after the former president suggested the idea at a Saturday rally.

Trump caused an uproar with his recent comments, when he promised to treat 'those people from January 6 fairly' if he runs and wins the White House. 'And if it requires pardons we will give them pardons because they are being treated so unfairly,' he said.

Following the January 6th Capitol riot, when there was already talk of potential legal exposure for organizers, Trump spoke to advisors about issuing a potential 'blanket' pardon for the people who stormed the Capitol, Politico reported.

One advisor summarized the conversations as Trump asking: 'Do you think I should pardon them? Do you think it’s a good idea? Do you think I have the power to do it?'

Another advisor is quoted saying Trump discussed how people who received pardons would never have to testify be deposed. He told the advisor that 'some people think I should pardon them,' and asked questions about the scope such as: 'Is it everybody that had a Trump sign or everybody who walked into the Capitol?'

That suggests Trump was discussing a sweeping order that would have included those who engaged in violent clashes with police.

At the time, the FBI was only beginning its nationwide manhunt, which has charged people with hundreds of offenses involving poles, bear spray, and other weapons. The government has charged a group of Oath Keepers with seditious conspiracy, and has sketched out a plan to ferry a weapons cache to the Virginia suburbs.

Trump made extensive use of the pardon power, and did not hold back from using it in cases close to home.

Among those he pardoned are former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn, former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, longtime informal advisor Roger Stone, and former campaign chair Paul Manafort – with Manafort, Bannon and Stone getting pardons during Trump's last days in office.

Trump's comments at his Texas rally drew blowback from House Jan. 6th Committee members. California Democratic Rep. Pete Aguillar said it was 'absolutely' witness tampering.

'And I think the question is more from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, you know where -- where are they? Do they support this? When is enough enough?' he asked on CNN.

Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) tweeted in response: 'Trump uses language he knows caused the Jan 6 violence; suggests he'd pardon the Jan 6 defendants, some of whom have been charged with seditious conspiracy; threatens prosecutors; and admits he was attempting to overturn the election. He'd do it all again if given the chance.'

Allies during Trump's last weeks in office were urging him to consider issuing 'preemptive pardons' of associates to head off what Trump continues to call a 'witch hunt' of probes. That discussion continued until his last hours in office – including public discussions of whether he could or should pardon participants in the Capitol riot.