Former President Donald Trump tore into 'world-class sleazebag' Jeff Zucker on Wednesday and insisted the CNN boss' relationship with a colleague wasn't the only reason he resigned.

'Jeff Zucker, a world-class sleazebag who has headed ratings and real-news-challenged CNN for far too long, has been terminated for numerous reasons, but predominantly because CNN has lost its way with viewers and everybody else,' the ex-president said in a statement.

While in recent years, Zucker and Trump were at odds, when Zucker was the president of NBC Entertainment he greenlit The Apprentice, which turned Trump into a reality television star, giving the real estate developer national name recognition that undoubtedly helped him win the White House in 2016.

Trump, who has hammered the mainstream media for being critical of him, suggested Zucker's exit would give CNN an opportunity to reboot.

'Now is a change to put Fake News in the backseat because there may not be anything more important than straightening out the horrendous LameStream Media in our Country, and in the case of CNN, throughout the World,' the ex-president continued.

'Jeff Zucker is gone - congratulations to all!' Trump concluded.

Zucker's exit from the network came after he failed to disclose a sexual relationship with a colleague, which was unearthed in the probe over ousted anchor Chris Cuomo's behavior.

In a memo to colleagues obtained by The New York Times, Zucker wrote, 'As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo's tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years.'

'I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn't. I was wrong,' he said.

Trump has long panned CNN for its coverage - with attendees at his rallies often chanting 'CNN sucks' near the press pen.

But at the beginning of his 2016 run, Zucker at the helm of CNN helped make Trump.

Zucker pushed the network to broadcast Trump rallies even before they started.

'DONALD TRUMP EXPECTED TO SPEAK ANY MINUTE,' the network's chyron would read.

At the same time, Zucker and the Trump campaign would be back-channeling, according to recordings from Trump's fixer Michael Cohen and reported on in The New York Times.

But as the Trump years went on, the network became more outwardly anti-Trump.

The Times' Ben Smith wrote in a September 2020 column that the more anti-Trump version of CNN may have just been 'Mr. Zucker's latest reflexive adaptation in search of ratings.'

'The other is that Mr. Zucker, TV's Dr. Frankenstein, has been willing to dent his network's nonpartisan brand in order to kill his runaway monster, Mr. Trump,' Smith wrote.

In recent weeks Trump and his allies have also turned against Fox for not doing enough to prop up the so-called 'big lie.'

Fox News Channel is also not covering Trump's rallies live.

'The Fox scam is over! Fox does not cover Trump at all, whatsoever,' complained Trump's former White House strategist Steve Bannon in a podcast taping after Trump's Arizona rally in mid-January.

Trump headlined two rallies - one in Arizona and one in Texas - in January.

This week the American Conservative Union also confirmed that Trump would return to the Conservative Political Action Conference, which takes place the last weekend of February in Orlando Florida.

CPAC was moved to Orlando last year due to Maryland's COVID-19 restrictions against large gatherings.

CPAC had been put on at the Gaylord National Resort & Convention Center in the National Harbor development situated alongside the Potomac River, right outside of Washington, D.C.