A former Justice Department attorney who allegedly tried to aide Donald Trump in overturning the 2020 presidential election results has appeared before the House select committee investigating the Capitol riot on Wednesday.

It was a busy day for the Nancy Pelosi-assembled committee, which also grilled Oath Keepers founder Stewart Rhodes for six hours via video link.

Rhodes was appearing before the panel from a federal detention center in Oklahoma on Wednesday, a lawyer connected to him told Politico.

The dual appearances would mean the panel heard a wide range of information today, which could include information from the origins of Trump's alleged efforts to change the election result through how those efforts were received by acolytes like Rhodes and his militia members.

Trump reportedly considered installing Jeffrey Clark as the acting Attorney General in late 2020 so Clark could demand investigations into battleground states won by Joe Biden.

After voting to refer him for a House-wide contempt vote two months ago, the panel had paused action on Clark over his insistence on pleading the fifth.

He was spotted entering a room inside a U.S. House of Representatives office building where the select committee investigating the Jan. 6, 2021, attack conducts its depositions.

DailyMail.com has reached out to the committee for comment.

Clark, who served as the acting head of the Justice Department's Civil Division, is a key part of the investigation given witness reports of the intimate role he played as a government official in pushing Trump's baseless election fraud claims.

Accounts also claim Clark had frequent conversations with Trump between his defeat in November and the insurrection on January 6.

Clark had drafted a December 28, 2020, letter to Georgia state lawmakers that falsely claimed the department had found 'significant concerns that may have impacted the outcome of the election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia.'

The draft letter urged state legislators to convene a special session to overturn the election results there.

Clark tried to persuade former Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen and former Acting Deputy Attorney General Rich Donoghue to send the letter, but they refused. He reportedly also pushed for similar letters to be sent to states with similarly close election outcomes.

Clark in November declined to answer the committee's questions about his legal advice to Trump, saying such discussions were privileged.

The committee voted to hold Clark in contempt on December 1.

He was first subpoenaed by the committee in November, claiming he was 'reportedly involved in efforts to overturn the 2020 presidential election and interrupt the peaceful transfer of power.'

'The Select Committee needs to understand all the details about efforts inside the previous administration to delay the certification of the 2020 election and amplify misinformation about the election results,' Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson had said in a statement. 'We need to understand Mr. Clark’s role in these efforts at the Justice Department and learn who was involved across the administration.'

Rhodes, like Clark, indicated he would be pleading the fifth, but on questions relating to his recent criminal charges.

The militia founder's attorney and a committee investigator 'have worked out an understanding for now, at least, to leave out the time period from November 3, 2020, through today under the Fifth Amendment,' Politico reported.

Rhodes is believed to be the first person who never entered the U.S. Capitol on January 6 to be criminally charged for the riot.

Last month he was named in an indictment along with 10 other Oath Keepers over their alleged roles in the riot. Rhodes is facing a charge of seditious conspiracy, among others. He has pleaded not guilty.

He could see 20 years behind bars if convicted.

Prosecutors say he issued orders from outside, and spent months plotting the insurrection over text and encrypted messaging services.

The Democrat-led bipartisan panel has been closing in on Trump's inner circle for months.

After the ex-president's former adviser Steve Bannon was criminally charged by the DOJ for refusing to cooperate, the House voted to hold Trump administration Chief of Staff Mark Meadows in contempt of Congress.

More recently the committee sent a letter to Trump's oldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, asking her to voluntarily cooperate in their investigation.

Multiple reports have suggested she spoke to her father at the White House more than once as the Capitol riot unfolded, and even allegedly pleaded with him to make a statement calling on his supporters to stand down.

And on Tuesday, the National Archives sent Trump a letter informing him it would be turning documents from Vice President Mike Pence's White House office over to the lawmakers.

Those are expected to find their way to Congress on March 3, barring court intervention.

Pence's former chief of staff Marc Short also testified before the committee in private recently, reports this week revealed.

Short is another key witness for the panel, likely having firsthand knowledge of Trump's attempts to pressure Pence to overturn the election.

The high-level staffer was also with Pence at the Capitol when Trump's fans broke in, some chanting 'Hang Mike Pence' over his refusal to go along with Trump allies' plotting.

Trump openly confessed to believing his vice president could change the results if he wanted to in a Sunday statement.

He had falsely claimed that lawmakers' efforts to overhaul the Electoral Count Act was 'proof' that Pence could upend Biden's 2020 victory.

'Actually, what they are saying, is that Mike Pence did have the right to change the outcome, and they now want to take that right away. Unfortunately, he didn't exercise that power, he could have overturned the Election!' Trump had said.