Former impeachment witness Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman filed suit against key Donald Trump allies – including Donald Trump. Jr. and lawyer Rudy Giuliani – charging them with having falsely attacked his loyalty to the U.S. and punishing him for his testimony.

Vindman, a retired Army lieutenant colonel, also lashed out at the defendants in an op-ed, where he cited his removal from the White House National Security Council and a delay in his Army promotion.

'I was attacked in a way calculated to inflict maximum personal and professional damage likely in order to prevent me from testifying or to punish me for doing so. In this country, that violates the law,' he writes.

He is suing four officials for intimidation and retaliation, writing: 'I wish I had done so sooner, both for my sake and for the other public servants who have been similarly tested.'

The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia, writes that former President Trump and his allies ‘engaged in an intention, concerted campaign of unlawful intimdation and retaliation against a sitting Director of the National Security Council and decorated military officer, Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, to prevent him from and then punish him for testifying before Congress during impeachment proceedings against President Trump.

Vindman was on Trump's infamous phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky when Trump asked for help digging up dirt on President Biden's son, Hunter.

He was subpoenaed to testify in Trump's impeachment after reporting the contents of the call.

His suit alleges the group carried out a 'coordinated campaign' based on 'common understanding and agreement' to target him for 'intimidation and retaliation.'

It says the attacks were to paint him as 'disloyal' to the U.S. and having 'engaged in "espionage."' He says they destroyed his ability to serve in a national security or foreign policy role.

The Ukraine-born Vindman served on the NSC along with his twin brother Yevgeny as an expert in Ukrainian affairs. He was director of European Affairs on the NSC.

He cites the Ku Klux Klan act of 1871, which is also cited in lawsuits by some lawmakers against Trump over Jan. 6th.

The suit says Don Jr. serves as Trump's 'emissary to the media, names Giuliani as a longtime advisor, targets Scavino for overseeing Trump's Twitter account, and names White House official Julia Hahn, who served as special assistant at the White House after working for TV host Laura Ingraham and Breitbart News.

Vindman immigrated to the U.S. in 1979 and was awarded the Purple Heart.

Trump fired Vindman and his brother following the impeachment effort, which resulted in his acquittal.

Vindmans' suit references an array of media figures as well as prior attacks Trump allies organized against former FBI official Andrew McCabe as it accuses the group of a conspiracy against him.

A long passage on Fox news commentator Laura Ingraham and her ties to the Trump White House recalls her report that Vindman 'usually' spoke English as part of an effort to 'smear' him.

It quotes a comment by John Yoo, a former Justice Department official who was a guest on her show, and responded to the comment: 'I find that astounding, and in – you know, some people might call that espionage.'

The suit does not name either Ingraham or Yoo.

It includes a Giuliani tweet that Vindman has 'reportedly been advising two gov's,' saying it implied he had 'dual loyalties.'

DailyMail.com has reached out to the Trump Organization for comment.