WWE legend Jeff Hardy has reportedly had his drug test back and the results are clean.

The former world champion’s brother Matt Hardy – who currently works for All Elite Wrestling (AEW) – has given fans an update after his sibling was released by WWE last year after refusing to go to rehab following an incident at a live show.

Speaking on his Twitch channel, Matt said: ‘Whenever my brother ended up being released, he had taken a drug test. Usually, these drug tests come back in 10 to 14 days.

‘Those 10 to 14 days had been up and he never got a rest and he was curious as to where his result was. He knew he had passed his drug test because he knew he hadn’t been doing any drugs and he has been clean, he’s been clean the whole while he’s been there.

‘There was an issue where they said, “Jeff Hardy had this erratic behavior” and he “jumped over the guardrail” or whatever. Hello, he’s Jeff Hardy, he’s a weird dude. That’s kind of what he does. The erratic behavior is why they gave him a drug test and sent him home.’

While Matt insisted he didn’t want to ‘bury’ the company – nothing he loves ‘WWE, Vince McMahon, everyone who is there’ – he insisted it’s still a ‘stressful environment’.

He claimed his brother left the ring during the untelevised live show because he was ‘literally done with the match and he felt done’.

Asked by his wife Reby if Jeff was looking to get fired, Matt – as transcribed by Fightful said: ‘I don’t think he did it intentionally trying to get fired. He does s**t like that all the time.

‘There are times where we’re in the ring and he just goes into business for himself because that’s how he feels. That’s how he is. He’s a very, emotionally, supercharged person and he follows his emotions and instincts.’

Meanwhile, Matt said Jeff received the drug test ‘a couple of days ago’ and his brother ‘passed on all levels’.

He also addressed reports WWE had tried to get Jeff back after his release by offering him a spot in the Hall of Fame.

Matt added: ‘He got a call from John Laurinaitis and they offered to induct him into the Hall of Fame. That’s not made up. That’s a real thing that happened. He just asked for his drug test at the end of the conversation. He said, “No, I just want my drug test,” kind of to clear his name.’

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Hardy Boyz reunion: Matt and Jeff teaming up for first time in 3 years after star’s WWE release

MORE : Jeff Hardy reveals ‘rejected’ WWE storyline with ‘old psychic’ he made before fans returned