Lawyers for ousted CNN anchor Chris Cuomo wrote to the network demanding that all communications between the network chief Jeff Zucker, his staffer lover Allison Gollust, and Chris's brother Andrew - the former governor of New York - be preserved, DailyMail.com can confirm.

Chris's lawyers sought the preservation of the communications as proof both that Zucker had a conflict of interest, while he was accusing Chris of his own conflict of interest in helping his brother.

Zucker resigned from the network on Wednesday, forced out by the revelations from Chris's legal team of a conflict of interest.

Gollust worked as Andrew Cuomo's PR director before joining CNN, adding to the cosy familiarity among the group.

A source says that besides the emails and other communications that would reveal the long term intimacy between Zucker and Gollust they would also reveal how Zucker pressured Andrew Cuomo to appear on CNN and how he pushed his personal agenda on Donald Trump and other conservatives with 'potent negative story lines.'

Chris Cuomo blew the whistle on Zucker's years-long, open-secret affair with Gollust while fighting for his $18million severance pay, according unnamed media sources.

In a statement on Wednesday, Zucker said he was stepping down for failing to disclose his relationship with Gollust when he was being interviewed as part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo.

He and Gollust claim the romance started during COVID, but media sources tell DailyMail.com it long predates the pandemic and was an open-secret in the CNN offices.

They lived in the same apartment building with their respective families, have worked together at NBC and then CNN for more than 20 years, and had what some called an 'uncomfortably cozy' rapport.

They are both now divorced, and one source told DailyMail.com that their splits were due in part to their affair. Politico cites two unnamed sources who say Chris Cuomo's legal team brought the romance to the surface during negotiations for the ousted host's severance pay.

Chris was fired in December last year after an internal investigation found he had helped his brother Andrew, former Governor of New York, navigate through a sexual misconduct scandal, while still working as a CNN host.

He is still fighting for $18million - the remainder of his contract - but Zucker has refused to pay out, citing the conflict of interest between Chris's relationship with his brother and his on-air reporting for CNN.

According to Politico's sources, Cuomo's team said it was hypocritical for Zucker to fire Chris for a conflict of interest when he has one of his own in his relationship with Gollust.

Gollust, who worked as Andrew Cuomo's communications director briefly, is also divorced, though it is unclear when she and her husband Billy - who runs a trading platform - split.

One source told DailyMail.com on Wednesday that the affair was an open secret for years.

'Jeff's affair with Allison has been going on forever – not since COVID! Everyone has known it but he still denied it.

'It was part of the reason for his divorce, but not the only reason.

'It was inevitable that it would come out – he should have been up front sooner.'

Another said: 'It was the worst kept secret inside the building.

'Jeff's office was right next to Allison's office at Hudson Yards and before that at the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle.

'The joke was they weren't only sharing a wall. No one believes that this only happened over pandemic.

'They have been close for years.

'The closest it ever came to being outed was when Page Six reported on their 'heavy exchange' at the Hollywood Reporter's 35 Most Powerful People in NY Media party.

'They had a very public fight at the party that didn't seem to have anything to do with work.'

Zucker admits lying about when the romance began during the investigation into whether or not Chris Cuomo, formerly the network's most successful host, helped his brother, former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, through his sexual harassment scandal.

'I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn't. I was wrong.

'As a result, I am resigning today,' he said.

According to an internal email, Michael Bass, Amy Entelis and Ken Jautz will take over as interim bosses, with Bass heading up the new leadership team.

But sources say Bass - who Zucker promoted to replace himself as Executive Producer on the Today show - is one of Zucker's right-hand men and shouldn't be considered for the job.

'The appointment of Michael Bass to the top job – even on an interim basis is outrageous.

'Michael and Jeff are very close friends. Both went to Harvard and both have looked after each other throughout their careers.

'It's such a boys club and an absolute joke.'

Zucker is widely concerned one of the most powerful men in media.

He has made a long list of enemies throughout his career - most notably Donald Trump, who celebrated his resignation.

Zucker's resignation is effective immediately but Gollust will stay on at the network as an Executive Vice President of PR at CNN, and will be staying on in her role despite Zucker's departure.

Chris Cuomo has been at war with CNN since he was fired in early December.

The network fired him after an investigation by the New York Attorney General's Office revealed the deep extent to which he'd helped his brother Andrew navigate a sexual misconduct scandal.

Chris ignored the subject on his nightly CNN talk show, but used his journalistic sources to research some of the women making claims against his brother, according to the AG report.

CNN also received a claim that he had been sexually inappropriate with a staff member in the days before he was fired. Chris Cuomo vehemently denied that claim.

Gollust, who said she will remain at the network, confirmed the affair in a statement Wednesday released to the New York Times.

'Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years,' she wrote.

'Recently, our relationship changed during COVID. I regret that we didn't disclose it at the right time.

'I'm incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do everyday.'

The couple was spotted together at a Billy Joel concert last November, where they were called out for defying mask regulations, but their romance was not picked up on.

In 2017, Zucker and Gollust were seen in a heated argument at the Hollywood Reporter's 35 Most Powerful People in NY Media party.

A source explained at the time that while the party was taking place, Zucker and Gollust suddenly started intensely speaking and making anguished hand gestures before Gollust stormed away into the crowd.

'It looked like she was reprimanding her husband or something,' mocked an unnamed rival news executive at the time.

Other journalists have pointed to the romance too.

In her book, Katie Couric told of how Zucker tried to push Gollust onto Couric's show, despite the fact there was no role for her.

'I had to wonder why Jeff was angling so hard to bring Allison on board.

'She and her husband and kids had moved into the apartment right above Jeff and Caryn's—everyone who heard about their cozy arrangement thought it was super strange.

'By that point, Caryn (Zucker's ex-wife) had become a close friend and it made me really uncomfortable,' Katie wrote in her memoir.

Zucker made a long-list of enemies over the years at CNN, most notable of whom is Donald Trump.

Trump celebrated his resignation on Wednesday, saying in an emailed statement: 'Jeff Zucker, a world-class sleazebag who has headed ratings and real-news-challenged CNN for far too long, has been terminated for numerous reasons, but predominantly because CNN has lost its way with viewers and everybody else.

'Now is a chance to put Fake News in the backseat because there may not be anything more important than straightening out the horrendous LameStream Media in our Country, and in the case of CNN, throughout the World.

'Jeff Zucker is gone—congratulations to all!' he said.

Megyn Kelly, former FOX News host, tweeted: 'Zucker's relationship with Gollust went on for years, and what he did to keep her near him (as he kept advancing her up the line) will be even more stunning to the CNN news room.'

Inside Jeff Zucker and Allison Gollust's 'cozy' relationship: As 'open-secret affair' sparks CNN boss's exit, how duo became 'joined at the hip' 20 years ago and even lived one floor apart in SAME New York apartment building

From Jeff helping Allison, 49, land her current job at CNN to living in the same apartment building with their respective families, the two have, according to former colleague Katie Couric, been 'joined at the hip' for more than two decades.

Where it all began, as colleagues at NBC

Harvard graduate Jeff and Allison - who began her career as a news anchor, reporter, and producer in Denver, Colorado - first met when they both worked at NBC.

According to her CNN profile, Allison started working for the company in 1996, six years after Jeff earned his first role within the network, and one year later, she was named as the senior publicist for the Today show.

Allison then served as the executive vice president of corporate communications for NBC, where she oversaw all aspects of the company's global communications efforts.

As for Jeff, who graduated from Harvard University in 1986, he started as a field producer for the Today show, where he rose through the ranks, eventually earning the job as executive producer on the show, before being named as the president of NBC Entertainment in 2000.

In her book, Going There, former NBC host Couric recalled her first encounter with Jeff, who was at the time a budding writer-producer, in 1990, describing him as being a 'nerd' who was 'seemed a little cocky, especially for someone so young'.

Then, on February 6, 2007, Jeff became president and CEO of NBC Universal.

Despite gaining a lot of power at NBC, Jeff was shoved out of the company in 2010, after its merger with Comcast Corporation.

The Los Angeles Times reported at the time that Comcast Chief Operating Officer Steve Burke 'told Jeff that he wanted him to 'move on' as soon as Comcast took control of the media conglomerate.'

During his time at NBC, Jeff had several misfires - most notably, when he brought in independent producer Ben Silverman, which ultimately caused NBC's ratings to plummet.

He was also slammed for moving Jay Leno's show to prime time, which negatively impacted the number of viewers.

Looking out for one another: How Jeff tried to snag Allison a job alongside him on Katie Couric's show

Both of them left NBC within months of one another in 2010, and Jeff spent several months without a job, before reuniting with former colleague Couric in 2011 in order to produce her self-titled daytime talkshow.

However, even after they both departed NBC, Jeff and Allison remained incredibly close. So close, in fact, that Jeff fought hard to get Allison a job on Katie's show while he was there.

The talk show host claimed in her 2021 memoir, Going There, that Jeff made a 'huge push' to bring Allison onto their staff, but they unfortunately didn't have a role for her.

'They were joined at the hip. The problem was, we'd already hired a PR person for the show. There really wasn't a role for Allison,' she wrote. 'I had to wonder why Jeff was angling so hard to bring Allison on board.'

In late 2012, rumors started to circulate that Jeff was planning to leave Katie's show to join CNN, and Katie later claimed that he and Allison had teamed up to plant those stories - writing that 'everyone knew he and Allison had Page Six on speed dial.'

Jeff then became the president of CNN on January 1, 2013.

Reuniting at CNN: How Jeff brought Allison on-board as his first hire

After leaving NBC, Allison took a job as then-New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's communications director at the end of 2012. However, just four months later, it was revealed that she had quit the role and was moving to CNN.

'[Jeff's] first hire?' Katie wrote in her book. 'Allison Gollust.'

She was hired at the company as senior vice president of communications.

'Allison is among the most experienced and respected communications executives in the media industry, and her close working relationship with Jeff Zucker is one of its most successful professional partnerships,' Jeff Matteson, senior vice president of communications for Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., said at the time.

Jeff added in a statement: 'In the 15 years that Allison and I have worked together, I've depended on her judgment, counsel and relationships.

'Allison is joining CNN at an exciting time, and she and the strong communications team she's inheriting will play a critical role in shaping the organization and its story going forward. It's great to have her at CNN.'

Living in close quarters: Pair spark speculation after moving into the same apartment building just one floor apart

Jeff and Allison lived in the same apartment building on the Upper East Side with their respective families until Jeff sold his in 2020, after he and his ex-wife - supervisor of Saturday Night Life Caryn Stephanie Nathanson - split.

The building is located at on the corner of Madison Avenue in Manhattan, New York. He resided in apartment 3W, while Allison lived in the unit right above him - number 4W - which she still owns.

Katie later claimed that their 'cozy arrangement' was 'super strange' and made her 'really uncomfortable.'

She said in her book: '[Allison] and her husband and kids had moved into the apartment right above Jeff and [his wife] Caryn's - everyone who heard about their cozy arrangement thought it was super strange.

'By that point, Caryn had become a close friend and it made me really uncomfortable.'

Allison's apartment has two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms, while Jeff's contained five bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms. He sold it for $15.4 million.

Both of them also own Hampton houses within 20 minutes from one another.

According to public sales records, Jeff's home hasn't been put up for sale since he purchased it in 1999 - however it's not known whether he or his wife took ownership of it in the divorce. Records also show that Allison still owners her Hampton home.

Leaving their respective partners: Lengthy marriages both end in divorce

Jeff and his ex-wife split in 2018 after 21 years of marriage, due to reportedly 'growing apart.'

A source told Page Six at the time: 'It can't be easy being married to Jeff - he is a workaholic, and is obsessed with news, and obsessed with being the best.

'Caryn is much more laid back and social, spends a lot of time with their kids and enjoys being part of the Upper East Side social circuit.

'They've had their problems over the years. Things have been bad for 10 years, but they have now accepted their marriage is over, and he has moved out of their apartment.'

The former couple share four kids together - three daughters and a son.

As for Allison, she was previously married to Billy Hult, the president of online marketplace platform Tradeweb.

According to RadarOnline, they broke up 12 months after Jeff and Caryn finalized their divorced. Before they split, they welcomed two daughters together named Olivia and Ava.

Now, sources have claimed that both of their marriages ended because of their budding romance.

An insider told DailyMail.com on Wednesday: 'It was part of the reason for his divorce, but not the only reason. It was inevitable that it would come out – he should have been up front sooner.'

Going public with their romance: Couple claim their 'relationship changed during COVID'

According to Allison, who said she will remain at the network, however, it wasn't until the COVID-19 pandemic hit that things turned romantic between them.

'Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years,' she wrote. 'Recently, our relationship changed during COVID,' she said in a statement released to the New York Times.

'I regret that we didn't disclose it at the right time. I'm incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do everyday.'

In a memo to CNN staff on Wednesday, Jeff spoke out about it too.

He said: 'As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo's tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years.

'I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn't. I was wrong.'