A former Conservative Party leader has said Boris Johnson ‘should be very worried’ by the number of his own MPs who spoke out against him following the publication of the Sue Gray report.

William Hague said the Prime Minister had the chance ‘to underline that he acknowledged that the buck stops with him’ and propose real change in response to the dossier and squandered it.

Writing in The Times, he said Mr Johnson had plenty of time to craft a comprehensive and substantial response which gave his critics ‘pause for thought’ but instead ‘decided to do the minimum’.

He added: ‘The Prime Minister could have got on the front foot, advancing his position on a broader front of ensuring integrity in government. Yet for some reason, this very intuitive politician decided to do the minimum in responding to the report rather than go further in his apology and his proposals.

‘Instead of reinforcing the momentum in his favour, he quite possibly stalled it.

‘If I were him, I would be very worried about the number of his own MPs who asked unhelpful questions at the end of his statement.’

Mr Hague – who had previously said he was ‘appalled’ by Mr Johnson’s failure to tackle the drinking culture at No 10 – reiterated the remarks he made to Times Radio last month that partygate wouldn’t have happened under any previous Tory leader.

Former Prime Minister Theresa May led the Tory backlash against Mr Johnson with a scathing attack on the PM, who she said either did not ‘read the rules’, understand them, or ‘didn’t think the rules applied to No 10’.

Mr Hague added: ‘He had a chance to underline that he acknowledged that the buck stops with him and that he had to change his own methods of management. It would have cost him nothing to emphasise that.

‘The mystery to me, having helped many prime ministers draft difficult statements and made hundreds of speeches in the Commons myself, is why he didn’t go further and make a more comprehensive job of it.’

Giving a statement to MPs an hour after the Gray update was published, the Mr Johnson said: ‘Firstly, I want to say sorry – and I’m sorry for the things we simply didn’t get right and also sorry for the way this matter has been handled.

‘It’s no use saying this or that was within the rules and it’s no use saying people were working hard. This pandemic was hard for everyone.’

He added: ‘I get it, and I will fix it. I want to say to the people of this country I know what the issue is.’

Mr Johnson insisted he was ‘making changes’ to Downing Street and the Cabinet Office, including by creating an Office of the Prime Minister with a permanent secretary to lead No 10.

But he faced a hostile response from some on his own side and the threat of a vote of no confidence has not yet been defeated.

Other Tory MPs joined Mrs May in raising questions over the conduct of those in Downing Street, including former chief whips Andrew Mitchell and Mark Harper.

Former Cabinet minister Mr Mitchell told the PM he had had his ‘full-throated support’ for the past 30 years.

But he added: ‘I am deeply concerned by these events and very concerned indeed by some of the things he has said from that despatch box and has said to the British public and our constituents.

‘When he kindly invited me to see him 10 days ago, I told him that I thought he should think very carefully about what was now in the best interests of our country and of the Conservative Party, and I have to tell him he no longer enjoys my support.’

The Prime Minister replied: ‘I must tell him respectfully, my right honourable friend, great though the admiration is that I have of him, I simply think that he is mistaken in his views and urge him to reconsider upon full consideration of the inquiry.’

Another Conservative, Aaron Bell, spoke about his grandmother’s lockdown funeral, asking: ‘Does the Prime Minister think I’m a fool?’

In response to mounting pressure from Tory MPs, Downing Street confirmed that Mr Johnson would publish an updated report from Ms Gray once the police investigation has concluded.

Addressing a meeting open to the whole Conservative parliamentary party on Monday evening, Mr Johnson again committed to publishing the report in full.

He told MPs he was taking the issue seriously, underling how he had nearly died from coronavirus.

New polling on Monday night from Opinium said 62% of UK adults wanted the PM to resign, and 64% believed Tory MPs should make him go.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the British public wanted Mr Johnson to resign but the Prime Minister ‘is a man without shame’.

The former director of public prosecutions said ‘there can be no doubt the Prime Minister himself is now subject to criminal investigation’ but ‘he gleefully treats what should be a mark of shame as a welcome shield’.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.