TikTok is a constant source of new trends to try – and food is one area where it excels.

Last year saw quick and easy dishes like Gigi Hadid’s spicy vodka pasta, the baked feta pasta that everyone was making, DIY corn ribs, and variations of overnight oats go viral.

At one point, we all went so wild for the baked pasta that shops across the country were rumoured to have run out of feta cheese (don’t worry, there was this twist with Boursin to try as a stop gap).

When a food hack hits the spot, we really go all out for it, and it seems that the first viral TikTok food hack of 2022 is here.

That’s right, overnight oats are so 2021.

The hashtag already has had 18 million views on TikTok and shows a plethora of recipe options. From Oreos and salted caramel to strawberries and tiramisu, the beauty is you can flavour it to suit – but the basic concept is the same.

And the best part? They taste like cheesecake.

TikTok user @clean_treats has a whole selection of flavour combinations to try. As well as the tiramisu (which looks incredible), there’s also apple pie, strawberry cheesecake, Snickers and Ferrero Rocher flavours.

Another user, specialising in fitness, is @Elmint. She’s got recipe variations including triple chocolate and salted caramel. (The latter has 2.4million views, so could be worth trying).

While @thathealtjunkie has a Banoffee pie recipe that looks incredible.

While some of the recipe creators are using sweeteners and protein powders to create their flavours, others are using fruit and jam – which is a bit easier if you don’t happen to have a bag of chocolate orange protein powder to hand.

Most of the recipes follow a similar process.

For the base, crush two Weetabix into a bowl or a Tupperware container, smoothing into the edges.

It’s worth noting that lots of the more fitness facing accounts recommend using Protein Weetabix, rather than plain – to up your protein for the day, rather than for the flabour.

Then, add some boiling water or milk of your choice – around 100-125ml, or enough to dampen the mixture. (If you want to make the tiramisu, this is when yo add your teaspoon of instant coffee, or a shot of espresso).

Mix low fat yoghurt with whatever flavour – or fruit – you want. Some examples for a topping are 15g of vanilla protein and half a teaspoon of sweetener (Stevia or maple syrup are recommended for the tiramus). Or chopped strawberries or bananas work.

Spread over the base and add any final topping across the top (for example, a sprinkle of chocolate powder for the tiramisu, or a dollop of jam for the strawberry cheesecake version).

Put in the fridge to set overnight. Voila – a cheesecake for breakfast will await you.

For the tiramisu version, you’re looking at around 315 kcal, with 30g of protein. 31g of carbs and 6g of fat. Strawberry comes in at around 381kcal and 24 grams of protein.

Do you have a story to share?

Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk.

MORE : TikTok star reveals all the hacks everyone should know by the age of 30

MORE : 5 best TikTok pasta recipes: From feta pasta to spicy vodka pasta

MORE : There’s now a dessert version of the famous TikTok baked feta pasta – using Maltesers