Lorraine Kelly has expressed her shock over Rihanna’s outdoor pregnancy photoshoot in wintery New York, speculating as to how ‘freezing’ the star might have been.

Yesterday, it was confirmed that the What’s My Name singer, 33, and her boyfriend, rapper A$AP Rocky, 33, are expecting a baby together.

The couple revealed their news with a series of pictures taken in the Big Apple, with Rihanna dressed in a bright pink puffer coat attached only at the top button, showing her baby bump as she embraced her partner.

Stars including Lizzo and Cardi B have offered their congratulations, with Rihanna’s Navy still absorbing the fact that their role model is going to become a mum.

On Tuesday’s edition of Lorraine, the host brought up the pictures of Rihanna and A$AP Rocky, admitting that she couldn’t believe that the singer’s bump was exposed amid the cold weather.

‘Rihanna it’s minus three in New York, your baby bump’s going to be freezing!’ she said.

Lorraine explained to viewers that the couple have not ‘confirmed or denied the report’, only confirming the pregnancy with the photos.

‘Rihanna! It’s minus three in New York! For goodness sake – your wee bump will be freezing whether there’s a baby in there or not, it’ll be absolutely…,’ the presenter said, before stopping herself mid-sentence by adding: ‘I was going to say something rude there.’

The 62-year-old also quipped that in her opinion, ‘of course’ Rihanna will bring out a maternity fashion line, as predicted by fans.

Rihanna and A$AP Rocky’s relationship started out as a friendship a decade ago when they worked on the remix of her song Cockiness, before their romance was confirmed in 2020.

They have since been spotted together throughout the past couple of years, making their red carpet debut at the Met Gala in September 2021.

In a previous interview with GQ, A$AP Rocky described Rihanna as ‘the one’ and ‘the love of my life. My lady’.

Rihanna’s dad, Ronald Fenty, has spoken out about the addition to his family, telling Page Six: ‘I’m so happy that I jumped for joy. I’m still so excited.’

He added: ‘Rihanna always said that she wanted children, she loves kids. She always takes care of her cousins’ kids…she’s going to be a good mum.’

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Carol McGiffin denies spat with Lorraine Kelly after deleted ‘revolting human beings’ tweet