Thousands of people have been forced into a strict lockdown in northern Beijing after just two cases of Covid were discovered.

With only three days to go until the Winter Olympics begins, authorities have doubled-down on their zero-tolerance policy which tries to break the chain of transmission as soon as it is found.

The Anzhenli neighbourhood in the Chaoyang district was closed off this weekend, with those living there unable to leave their compound.

Officials have also locked down housing compounds in Fengtai district, home to an estimated population of 2.26million.

It comes after 1.2million people in Xiong’an New Area, a new economic zone 60 miles southwest of Beijing, were quietly ordered to stay in their homes over a handful of coronavirus cases at the weekend.

No public announcement was made about these fresh restrictions, which local virus prevention staff confirmed to news agency AFP and said would last around a week.

Just 12 domestic cases of Covid were recorded in Beijing between 4pm on Saturday and 4pm on Sunday, said Pang Xinghuo, the vice-head of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. All those cases came from people who were already under some kind of pandemic control measures.

While numbers are low compared to other countries, China’s capital city is on high-alert ahead of the games, which kick off this Friday with an opening ceremony.

Everyone coming for the Olympics is being isolated from the general public for the duration of their stay to try to prevent cross-infection.

The participants in the Games stay in hotels that have been surrounded by temporary walls and can come and go only in special vehicles that take them directly to the venues or other Olympics facilities.

The public is not allowed to enter the hotel properties or the venues, though a limited number of spectators will be let in for the events.

Anyone who tests positive inside the Olympics bubble is isolated in a hospital or quarantine hotel to try to prevent the virus from spreading to other participants.

The Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics Organizing Committee said yesterday that 24 new infections were found among games-related personnel as of January 31, 16 of which were athletes.

A total of 200 cases among arrivals have been detected in the past week, including a Swedish cross-country skier and a snowboarder from Slovenia.

American bobsleigher Elana Meyers Taylor said on Tuesday she tested positive for the virus after arriving in Beijing and is currently at an isolation hotel

‘Getting to the Olympics is never easy, and this time, as a new mom, it has been the most challenging,’ the three times Olympic medalist wrote on social media.

China has enforced some of the world’s toughest restrictions since cases of Covid were first discovered in the city of Wuhan more than two years ago.

Despite the rise in cases, officials have insisted the situation is under control.

‘As more people are entering China the imported COVID-19 cases are increasing,’ said Huang Chun, deputy director general of the committee’s Pandemic Prevention and Control Office at a press briefing.

‘(The COVID-19 situation) is generally within our expected controllable range. So the Games participants, including athletes, and Chinese public do not have to worry.’

Huang added that rising cases were also a result of more effective and accurate detection techniques by customs.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.