Sunpro Solar is a leading provider of both residential and commercial solar energy solutions throughout 21 states, ranking No. 2 on our list of the best solar installers in the U.S. But what do Sunpro Solar reviews have to say about the company’s customer service as it expands?

In this article, we’ll take a look at the Louisiana-based company’s reputation, service offerings, pricing and more so you can decide whether purchasing solar panels with Sunpro is a good idea for your home.

Read on for our full review, or to see if Sunpro is available in your area and get a free quote, fill out the 30-second form below.

The company has installed solar on over 25,000 homes, and Sunpro reviews are largely positive, giving it a great nationwide reputation.

Sunpro is yet to spread into the Northeast but now services most of the southern U.S. and has become a top solar company in Texas, Arizona and California. They also currently hold a BBB rating of an A and holds certifications from NABCEP, LG, Enphase and Unirac. Sunpro opts to exclusively sell renewable energy systems rather than lease solar panels. It also offers high-quality solar storage solutions. What sets Sunpro apart from competitors is its 25-year comprehensive guarantees of power output, workmanship and product longevity.

Sunpro Solar designs, installs and maintains solar panels on commercial properties and residential homes. The provider has over a decade of experience in solar installations and prides itself on its reputation for providing quality service and industry-leading warranties.

The right products for your home will depend on your energy needs, but Sunpro comes armed with some of the best solar panel and backup battery options on the market. Sunpro’s PV installations are mostly equipped by brands like LG and Panasonic — companies known for making products with exceptional longevity and quality at an affordable price.

Sunpro also offers both the Tesla Powerwall 2 and the Enphase Encharge 10, two of the best solar battery options on the market. Despite Sunpro carrying a mix of brands for its panels and storage systems, the company chooses products that are compatible with each other. For instance, LG panels are known to work well in nearly any solar configuration.

Outlining its process in just three steps, Sunpro strives to make solar installations as simple and easy as possible. Relative to its competitors, Sunpro’s process is more simple, but this can come at the cost of customizing the look and functionality of your system.

An average Sunpro customer can expect the installation process to look a little more like this:
• Sunpro evaluation: To kick off the process, one of Sunpro’s solar consultants will visit and evaluate your home to determine if it’s the right fit for solar. If eligible, Sunpro will send a quote and rendering of your home’s proposed system. Make sure your proposal outlines any local incentives or solar tax exemptions available in your area.
• Obtain permits and approvals: Once you’ve approved the plans and signed the paperwork, Sunpro will handle the details of obtaining your permits and approvals. Most solar installations will require a city permit, and some may require a net metering agreement to ensure a safe installation and that you can sell any surplus energy back to your local utility company.
• System installation: After all permits and approvals are secured, Sunpro will install your system. Most Sunpro installations are complete within one to three business days, depending on their complexity. Before you can turn the system on, both the city inspector and local utility need to issue permission to operate (PTO). Sunpro will schedule all required inspections before assisting you in getting your system up and running.

It’s challenging to estimate the average cost of solar for a provider, as prices depend on your location, home and energy goals. We do know that Sunpro offers fairly competitive prices, but local installers may quote just below Sunpro to get a leg up on the competition. This is another reason we encourage our readers to get several quotes from competing companies.

Unlike other industry leaders like Sunrun and SunPower, Sunpro does not offer a lease option. This excludes a small number of homeowners interested in solar, but ultimately Sunpro encourages purchases so that customers can secure the best value for their time and money.

Sunpro offers standard solar financing plans for its customers, all backed by the company’s 25-year guarantee.
• Full purchase: You own the system and the energy it produces. Purchasing solar panels is the ideal way to go solar. When you purchase panels, you buy the solar equipment from Sunpro in cash. Think of this as paying for 25 years worth of energy upfront, only for far less than you’d pay if you stuck it out with your local utility.
• Monthly loan: You own the system and pay for it with a loan. Sunpro can help you secure a solar loan to fund the purchase of your solar panels. Loans require monthly payments and vary in interest rates based on credit scores and loan terms. Payback periods can range from five to 12 years depending on these factors. With a monthly loan, you still own the system outright, which adds to property value, allows you to claim the federal solar tax credit and provides a far greater return on investment than leasing panels.

Unlike most companies, which only offer product warranties and 10-year workmanship warranties, Sunpro offers a comprehensive 25-year warranty guaranteeing the solar system produces at its estimated level for decades after your purchase.

According to Sunpro, if your system does not produce the amount of energy guaranteed, you will receive the difference in cash. More specifically, the 25-year Sunpro guarantee includes:
• A labor guarantee that your system is installed properly without any damage to your home or system.
• A power production guarantee that your solar energy system produces the amount of power outlined in your initial solar proposal.
• An Enphase microinverter guarantee that your system’s microinverters perform without error.

There are bound to be mixed reviews for any company with over 25,000 clients. Let’s take a look at what real Sunpro customers have to say — both positive and negative.

Sunpro Solar reviews from happy customers mostly describe a “set it and forget it” solar project: simple plans, a quick installation and a product performing just as it was advertised.

“

 Great company! I had my solar installed a couple months ago. Everyone and everything was great and went very smoothly. They kept in contact with everything that was going on the entire time. Now I have a new roof, a nice tax credit and a practically non-existent light bill!” — Jeremy via BBB

“Everything went as promised and on time. All the people were friendly and courteous. I am having no problems with the installation and service.” — Thom via Google Reviews

Solar, like any business, runs on sales. And Sunpro’s sales consultants work on commission. That’s why it’s important to find an installer that you can trust to keep you satisfied well after the papers are signed. Solar can be a very challenging issue for homeowners to troubleshoot, and most negative Sunpro Solar reviews stem from customers experiencing issues after the sale was made. Here are a few examples.

“I pretty much have the same complaints as most others. I’d warn all to not waste your time or money with this company. They install the panels very quickly in order to get their money from the lending company. But once they receive their money, you are on your own. They never keep in contact to update you on the status of the activation of the panels. They are not honest at all in the entire process.” — Sean via BBB

“I was satisfied when I first got the solar panels installed. However, when I call now to get my panels serviced — as I have 11 panels out of commission — I am being told that it will be awhile… I have yet to get a date that my panels will be serviced. Have not even gotten a call back.” — Sandra via Google Reviews

To get connected with one of the best solar companies in your area and get a free, no-obligation quote, fill out the form below.

How Sunpro Solar Compares to Other Providers

Now that you know what Sunpro Solar reviews have to say, let’s compare the provider to a couple of other well-known national solar companies:

To get connected with one of the best solar companies in your area and get a free, no-obligation quote, fill out the form below.

Sunpro Solar is a good example of how a solar company should operate; an all-encompassing 25-year warranty, high-quality solar panels and good customer service. Sunpro has helped tens of thousands of homeowners discover the benefits of modern solar energy by keeping its business and installation process simple. We’d like to see better results from its customer service department, however.

If you do go with Sunpro, the chances are that you’ll receive a quick, simple and effective solar solution that works for at least 25 years. We noticed most issues arise on the rare occasions that installations don’t go smoothly. Whether a minor issue like your inverter not connecting to your network or a major issue like a faulty panel, a comprehensive 25-year warranty only does so much good if you can’t get your provider to call you back.

Overall, we happily recommend Sunpro to our readers, but be sure you only sign a contract from a sales rep you trust. Leave no stone unturned in asking questions prior to the sale to make sure your consultant is knowledgeable and will field any of your concerns after you sign a contract. Solar is a significant investment, and you should feel confident in your decision.

Karsten Neumeister is a writer and renewable energy specialist with a background in writing and the humanities. Before joining EcoWatch, Karsten worked in the energy sector of New Orleans, focusing on renewable energy policy and technology. A lover of music and the outdoors, Karsten might be found rock climbing, canoeing or writing songs when away from the workplace.