Kate, 40, to whom the Queen has given the Rugby Football Union and Rugby Football League patronages formerly held by Prince Harry, was at Twickenham Stadium, the home of England rugby to meet and train with players, coaches and referees ahead of the Six Nations championships which start this weekend.

Wearing a black official England tracksuit and trainers, Kate arrived at Twickenham where Tom Hube, chairman of the RFU, asked her: “Are you ready for some training?” Kate replied: “Absolutely, I’ve got my kit on.”

After being welcomed into the stadium by England captains Courtney Lawes and Sarah Hunter, Kate chatted to a group of England women players who are preparing for the women’s world cup in New Zealand this autumn, including Abby Dow, Poppy Cleall and Shaunagh Brown.

“I’ve never seen the stadium so quiet, it’s amazing. Do you get to play here a lot? What was it like training during the pandemic?” she asked them. “It must be great to be back and with so much to look forward to this year.

“What kind of ages did you all start playing at?” Several players told her how they had started at the age of five and six, and had been playing against each other for many years.

“Do you think it’s growing in popularity in schools?” Kate asked.

Dow said: “Definitely, and I think now you’re seeing it come into the curriculum.”

Kate then told them how George plays rugby and netball with girls and boys at his school, Thomas’s Battersea, adding: “Now that there is a move towards co-ed sport, so it’s not just girls playing netball, but other sports like rugby, which is great.”

Speaking about her children’s enthusiasm for rugby, she said: “They’re all enjoying it, Louis is kamikaze, we’re worrying about when he gets older, he’ll be in the middle of everything.” The group laughed and Hunter joked: “That’s perfect!”

As the women’s team presented her with junior England kits for George, Charlotte and Louis, Kate, told them: “I’m very proud to be here. I’ve got lots to learn, I’ve been looking at different players and tactics.”

Next, Kate joined a group of the men’s team and head coach Eddie Jones, on the pitch, asking them how the pandemic had impacted the sport and how the were preparing for their first game against Scotland at Murrayfield, Edinburgh, on Saturday: “How has training been? You’ve all been isolating together? Very jolly.”

She laughed when Ellis Genge, England and Leicester Tigers prop asked her about the new rivalry with the Duke of Cambridge, who is patron of the Welsh Rugby Union. “Ha, yes, what does that mean?” she joked.

“We’re terribly competitive. The fact we’re now supporting two different teams is going to make things interesting.” William and Kate are expected to attend some of England and Wales’s games during the Six Nations tournament.

Kate was then invited to join the women’s team in some training exercises on the pitch. “What could possibly go wrong?” she laughed, as she started with some high catches and back passes.

Then, scoring a try, she raised her arms in the air before trying her hand at line out throws. “How do you get a spin on it?” she asked one of the players, before practising some throws. Next, the duchess was hoisted up into some line out lifts. “Waaah, that’s high,” she laughed as the players lifted her into the air to catch the ball.

Joining the men’s team for some exercises, Kate perfected drop kicks and high kicks with Saracens full back Elliot Daly and Harlequins fly-half Marcus Smith, before perfectly kicking the ball through the goal posts. “I’m being trained by the pros,” she beamed. The team then showed her how to form a scrum, and the duchess got stuck in “scrummaging”.

Following the session, she also spoke with referee Sara Cox, the first female referee to take charge of a men’s international game, for a pitch-side chat to hear more about her journey to becoming a professional referee, and her career highlights and challenges.

As she thanked the players and wished them luck in the Six Nations, Hube and Jeff Blackett, the RFU’s president, presented Kate with referee whistles for George, Charlotte and Louis.

Speaking after her visit, Maro Itoje, Saracens second row, said: “It was great, she takes a keen interest. She was very engaging and seems very happy to be here. She was talking about how George is playing a bit of rugby and how he’s a bit bigger than some of the other boys, so there can be a bit of a differential there. She was also saying how when England play Wales, it’s going to be very interesting in their household.

“She’s a massive fan of the game and she comes to the games, to have her as our patron is fantastic, she can help to grow the sport, that’s what we want as players from our patron, to shine a light on the game. And for the female players, especially, for her to further shine the light on the women’s game is fantastic.

Asked about her playing skills, Itoje said: “She’s very good for someone who doesn’t regularly play rugby. Her skills are very high.”

Hunter also hailed Kate as the new patron of English rugby as “a really powerful movement and message” for the women’s game. “It is amazing to have Her Royal Highness as our patron, to have an iconic woman like the Duchess of Cambridge advocating for the sport and encouraging more young people to come through, is so good for the game.

“She was very interested and we chatted about grass roots rugby. It’s a great feeling that she’s part of our rugby family. That she was so keen to get stuck in there, scrummaging, says a lot. She has natural ability and co-ordination and even scored a try at Twickenham!

“She told us about George and how he’s started playing rugby, and he plays with girls as well at school. She said he played netball as well, and how there’s a gender neutral approach to sport. She said Louis is a bit more kamikaze.”

Earlier today, in a personal Tweet as her new patronages were announced with an accompanying video, Kate said: “I am so thrilled to become patron of @TheRFL and @EnglandRugby. Two fantastic organisations who are committed to harnessing the power that sport can have in bringing communities together and helping individuals flourish. I look forward to working with them across all levels of the games, and to cheering England on in what promises to be an exciting year for both sports! C.”

Kensington Palace said the new patronages, given to Kate by the Queen, “closely align with Her Royal Highness’ longstanding passion for sport and the lifelong benefits it can provide, both within our communities and on an individual level.”

Kate is an avid rugby fan and grew up watching England games with her family, long before her 2011 marriage to William, who is patron of the Welsh Rugby Union. She has continued enjoying international games and in 2015, attended the rugby World Cup hosted by England. Two years later, she was visibly gripped by the tense France vs Wales Six Nations match, during an official visit to Paris, where Wales were narrowly beaten.

The duchess’s sister, Pippa, has written about the family obsession with rugby for Vanity Fair magazine in 2014: “Picture the scene. It’s Saturday afternoon in the Middleton household. The atmosphere is heavy with expectation. All eyes are on the television…we’re watching England play Ireland in the 1996 Five Nations Rugby tournament…Rugby was a big thing in our family, and the focal point was international matches…We’d plan our weekends around the matches…If we lost, my dad would be in a state of despair for the rest of the afternoon, as if he’d actually lost the game himself.”

It is thought Kate will also champion the RFU’s “Inner Warrior” campaign, which aims to encourage more girls and women into the game. Harry previously backed the RFU’s All Schools Programme, to draw more children from state schools into rugby.

The RFU and RFL roles were held by Prince Harry for five years, but in February last year, the Queen stripped the Sussexes of their royal patronages after they confirmed they would not return to the UK as working royals. Harry, a keen rugby player and fan, was vice-patron of the RFU from 2010 until 2016, when he took over as patron from the Queen, who held the role for 64 years. The monarch was also patron of the RFL, and handed the role to Harry the same year [2016]. Harry hosted the rugby league world cup draws at Buckingham Palace in January 2020, shortly after announcing he and Meghan were stepping down from public duties.

Bill Sweeney, Chief Executive of the RFU, said: “It is a great honour to welcome the Duchess of Cambridge as our Patron. Our aim is to enrich lives, introduce more people to rugby union, develop the sport for future generations and create a successful thriving game across the country. As rugby clubs have re-opened across the country, players, officials, and volunteers are celebrating being back in the game together, and we know the support of The Duchess will be greatly valued from our grass roots clubs and fast-growing women and girls’ game, right up to our elite Men’s and Women’s England teams.”

Established in 1895, the RFL is the national governing body for Rugby League in the UK – covering all forms of grassroots and the professional game, including women’s and wheelchair rugby. The RFL is committed to managing, developing and promoting Rugby League, alongside delivering entertainment to its fans and improving the lives of local communities.

Ralph Rimmer, Chief Executive of the RFL, said: “We are truly honoured by the appointment of the Duchess of Cambridge as the Rugby Football League’s Royal Patron. We are delighted to welcome her as we prepare to host Men’s, Women’s, Wheelchair and Physical Disability Rugby League World Cups in England this autumn. Our sport’s history has been built on a commitment to tackling inequalities and we honour that through our focus on having a positive social impact well beyond the pitch. We look forward to working with The Duchess in the years to come, and I know all levels of our sport will welcome her to the Rugby League family.”