Professor Tim Spector, of the Zoe Covid Study app, issued the stark warning shortly after Boris Johnson lifted Plan B restrictions which saw work from home guidance and the legal requirement for masks dropped.

Across the UK, cases are now approaching 200,000 a day the as of January 31 - data from the study shows.

Among those with two shots of a vaccine, the study shows case rates could be as high as 74,474.

Speaking to the Standard, Professor Spector said: “You’ll get slightly more cases than the Omicron strain and it will be even harder to stop it spreading, that’s the worst thing it will be.

“I think cases will stay high for a while. The uncertainty will be whether people who’ve had BA.1, will be protected against BA.2. That’s the unknown question.

“Most say it is unlikely that you will be protected. But what we do know is that it needs to be more infectious than BA.1. Gov data says it’s all flat but ours says it’s rising.”

In London, case levels are rising in the 20-29, 30-39 and the 40-49 age groups.

While cases in the 0-19 age group have begun to fall, they are still tracking at high levels and were registered at approximately 70,000 Covid cases on January 27.

According to data published on January 27 by the study, London was recording 300 cases per million - the highest rate across the country.

The increase in cases is being pushed by the new BA.2 strain, which experts believe is more infectious than the original Omicron variant, although data remains in its early stages.

Although Professor Spector said cases may reduce somewhat over the summer, he warned the UK will be hit by another variant next winter which will likely be more infectious.

A study by researchers at Statens Serum Institut (SSI), Copenhagen University, Statistics Denmark and Technical University of Denmark found those exposed to the new strain had a 39 per cent probability of being infected within seven days.

That is compared to 29 per cent for the original strain of Omicron.

The study analysed more than 8,500 Danish households with the new strain accounting for 82 per cent of the country’s cases, although the study is yet to be peer reviewed.

The study said: “We conclude that Omicron BA.2 is inherently substantially more transmissible than BA.1, and that it also possesses immune-evasive properties that further reduce the protective effect of vaccination against infection.”

The study also claimed the new strain is more effective at infecting vaccinated and booster-vaccinated people than BA.1.

According to the Government’s own data as of January 24, there were 1,072 cases of the new strain.