A total of 534 Covid related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.

It is the highest Covid death related figure since February last year.

At the time, 548 Covid related deaths were reported on February 23 in 2021.

On Wednesday, the UK Health Security Agency has said there has been “some delays in the reporting of daily deaths” meaning the data in the last 24 hours “includes a backlog” and “deaths are higher than would normally be the case”.

They put this down to a change in “our reporting mechanisms”.

Wednesday’s figures also saw 88,085 new cases recorded, compared with 112,458 reported on Tuesday.

This figure includes reinfections in England and Northern Ireland which are more than 90 days after a previous positive test.

The total is based on positive lab-confirmed PCR tests in all four nations of the UK.

Also, it includes most positive lateral flow tests reported in England and all lateral flow tests reported in Northern Ireland.

Covid cases have been highest among children age two to school year in the last week, the ONS revealed.

In England, around one in eight children (13.1%) from age two to school year 6 are likely to have had Covid-19 last week.

For children in school years 7 to 11, the estimate was around one in 13 (7.6%).

The latest figures comes amid reports the daily updates will be scrapped as the UK learns to “live with the virus”.

It is expected the list could be binned by Easter at the latest.

A senior Whitehall source familiar with the plans told i newspaper: “The Prime Minister has pencilled in Easter as the latest date by which the daily Covid statistics will be published in their current form.

“In an ideal situation he will bring an end to them sooner if the current downward trend in deaths continues.”

Any decision taken by Downing Street will apply only to England which would still give a weekly update from the Office for National Statistics.

In other news, Spain has tightened their restrictions throwing half term holidays into doubt for British travellers.

The Spanish government has said tourists must produce a negative lateral flow test 24 hours before departing.

Since June 2021, they have had up to 48 hours to take a lateral flow test before travelling to Spain.

However, the time allowed was reduced to one day in new rules which kicked in on Tuesday.