After all just a few hours earlier another senior Conservative MP - the Defence Committee chair and former Minister Tobias Ellwood – revealed he had submitted a letter of no confidence in the PM heaping further pressure on Mr Johnson as he faces a police probe into Downing Street parties.

It started pretty badly for Mr Johnson too, with Sir Keir Starmer accusing him of “parroting” far right conspiracy theories when he said the Labour leader had failed to prosecute Jimmy Savile when he was running the Crown Prosecution Service.

Sir Keir reminded Tory MPs theirs was the party of Winston Churchill, Mr Johnson’s hero, who had united with Labour to fight fascism in Europe. But despite pressure from some Conservatives who feel he may have overstepped the mark when he made the comment in the Commons on Monday, Mr Johnson refused to back down.

The Labour leader then quickly shifted focus to the economy and the looming cost of living crisis, accusing the Prime Minister of “gaslighting” the British public with claims that his Government was committed to lowering taxes even as the UK heads for its highest tax burden for 70 years.

Sir Keir said the Government was squeezing working people with plans for a 1.25 percentage point rise in National Insurance at the same time as they face soaring inflation and higher energy bills.

He described Mr Johnson and his Chancellor Rishi Sunak (notably absent from the Commons chamber) as the Tories’ answer to Thelma and Louise “hand in hand as they drive the country off the cliff and into the abyss of low growth and high tax”.

After his stormy session with MPs on the Gray report on Monday, when the Prime Minister was accused of misjudging the mood and was ambushed by former supporters like Andrew Mitchell, this was much safer territory for Mr Johnson. He brushed off Labour’s line of attack, saying the UK economy was growing at the fastest rate in the G7 and that there were more people in work now than at the start of the pandemic.

He drew the noisiest cheer from Tory MPs for comparing Sir Keir to cartoon characters Dick Dastardly and Mutley who, he said, were always “pulling in different directions”.

Even questions about Covid loan fraud and the Department of Health and Social Care’s write off of £8.7billion on PPE contracts didn’t seem to dent Mr Johnson’s confidence. He bellowed that he was proud of the way the country had procured protective equipment in such a speedy fashion at the start of the Covid crisis.

Yes there were still calls from opposition MPs for him to resign over parties. Ian Blackford, the Westminster leader of the SNP, asked if he could confirm if he had attended a party in his Downing Street flat on 13 November 2020 – the day his former aide Dominic Cummings left No10.

With the Met now probing 12 parties – at least three of which may have been attended by the PM – we would all have to wait for the outcome of the police investigation, Mr Johnson replied.

Labour’s Angela Eagle asked why the country should trust him with the country’s nuclear button if he needed the police to tell him if he had attended a party in his own home.

Mr Johnson again side stepped the swipe, turning his fire back on Ms Eagle for supporting former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, who had voted against the UK’s nuclear deterrent.

After so many dramatic PMQs where the stakes have seemed so high for Mr Johnson, the Met’s police inquiry seems to have brought the Prime Minister some breathing space to try and refocus his Government on the big questions facing the country.

But as Tobias Ellwood’s intervention showed, his future is far from secure.