The Spanish government has said tourists must produce a negative lateral flow test 24 hours before departing.

Since June 2021, they have had up to 48 hours to take a lateral flow test before travelling to Spain.

However, the time allowed was reduced to one day in new rules which kicked in on Tuesday.

Holidaymakers could have their hopes of a getaway to Spain dashed if they test positive for Covid just hours before their flight.

The Spanish government said: “As of today [February 1] only negative results of antigen tests for SARS-CoV-2 infection obtained within 24 hours before arrival in Spain will be considered valid, and not 48 hours, as was the case until now.”

Travellers will still have 72 hours to take a PCR test before they set off.

New rules were implemented on Tuesday amid the Covid pandemic which could spark disappointment among British holidaymakers who have set their heart on visiting Spain.

The rules included an expiration date on vaccination certificates.

British holidaymakers will only be able to come to Spain if they can prove they were fully vaccinated against Covid within the last 270 days.

Those who received their second dose more than nine months ago must get a booster jab to be allowed to enter the holiday destination.

Boosters must be administered more than 14 days before travel.

People who haven’t got their booster jab yet but had their second dose more than nine months ago won’t be able to visit the country in half term.

It comes after British families planning to travel to Spain in the February half term were warned over the country’s strict Covid vaccination rules.

The Foreign Office reminded travellers are required to have at least two vaccines when arriving in Spain.

This rule could prove to be a huge disappointment to families with children aged 12 to 15.

Children aged 12 to 15 may not have received both vaccinations against Covid yet.

Meanwhile Spanish islands have warned British tourists face fines of up to £50,000 for drunken behaviour in a crackdown on booze.