All Global Research articles can be read in 51 languages by activating the “Translate Website” drop down menu on the top banner of our home page (Desktop version).

Visit and follow us on Instagram at @globalresearch_crg.

Ukraine, Britain, and Poland are creating a new format of political cooperation in Europe.

That’s according to President Volodymyr Zelensky, who addressed the Verkhovna Rada at an opening of the seventh parliamentary session on Tuesday, February 1….

“We are creating a new format of political cooperation in Europe involving Ukraine, Britain, and Poland,” Zelensky said.

British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss earlier said a tripartite alliance was being considered between Britain, Poland, and Ukraine.

The head of Ukrainian diplomacy, Dmytro Kuleba, also told reporters about the active work on creating such an alliance.

On February 1, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland and British PM Boris Johnson will be paying a visit to Ukraine.

An article by 112 Ukraine entitled PM announces signing of declaration between Ukraine, United Kingdom and Poland reports:

A new regional format of Ukraine-Poland-United Kingdom cooperation will be created in the near future. Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmygal announced this during a briefing.

“I hope that in the near future we will be able to officially create a new regional format of Ukraine-Poland-UK cooperation. In the face of ongoing Russian aggression, we should sign a trilateral document on cooperation in strengthening regional security,” Shmygal said.

The day before, it was reported that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Boris Johnson and the Prime Minister of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki plan to announce the creation of a new format of cooperation with Ukraine during his visit to Kyiv.

Note to readers: Please click the share buttons above or below. Follow us on Instagram, @globalresearch_crg. Forward this article to your email lists. Crosspost on your blog site, internet forums. etc.

Rick Rozoff, renowned author and geopolitical analyst, actively involved in opposing war, militarism and interventionism for over fifty years. He manages the Anti-Bellum and For peace, against war website.

He is a Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG).