A new lawsuit states that a COVID testing company had faked test results and didn’t even have licenses to operate testing sites in the first place. These sham testing centers threatened the health and safety of our communities.

The Center for COVID Control claimed to be able to perform COVID-19 tests for free across Washington state, with results arriving under 48 hours. As per the 14-page lawsuit launched in King County Superior Court by Washington state Attorney General Robert Ferguson, the firm obtained patient insurance data and supplied “invalid COVID-19 test results or no results at all.”

Ex staff told authorities that the company, which operated without permits in much of the state, was unable to perform all of the tests it obtained, and also that the directors refused to hire additional staff.

Rather than refrigerating tests, the agency reportedly held them in waste bags for nearly a whole week and backdated collection data so that the specimens could still be analyzed.

“As trash bags of tests piled up and my team was instructed to lie to patients on a daily basis, I had had enough. I first requested a demotion from my shift lead position, and, shortly after that, I quit,” prosecutors were informed by an ex-employee based in Illinois.

“Center for COVID Control contributed to the spread of COVID-19 when it provided false negative results,” Ferguson said in a statement. “These sham testing centers threatened the health and safety of our communities. They must be held accountable.”

Requests for clarification have gone unanswered by the corporation.

Aleya Siyaj, the CEO and Founder of the Center for COVID Control, declared in January that the firm will be closed from January 14 to January 22 owing to “unusually high patient demand” that had resulted in personnel shortages.

The corporation announced on Jan. 20 that it was prolonging its operational suspension.

“As previously announced, CCC is using this operational pause to train additional staff on sample collection and handling, customer service and communications best practices, as well as compliance with regulatory guidelines. CCC will provide an update on reopening plans when appropriate,” the company said in a statement.

The Washington state lawsuit seeks the court to impose civil penalties on the firm and to prevent it from providing or executing COVID-19 tests in the state.

The Center for COVID Control has around 300 test locations across the US, including 13 in California.

Federal officials searched the company’s Illinois offices in January, just days afterwards of Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison suing it for suspected deceptive promotion.

Several Minnesota individuals “have not received any test results from Defendants after submitting samples, let alone within the timeframes promised by Defendants,” according to the lawsuit, which was lodged in Minnesota district court.