GREENWICH — Seven residents who had been diagnosed with COVID-19 have died in the past week, but local officials said Greenwich’s numbers overall are improving with a downward trend reported in new cases of COVID in town.

Since the pandemic began in March 2020, Greenwich has recorded 116 deaths and 10,959 diagnosed cases, as of Tuesday.

In the last week, there were 190 new cases, a big decline compared to the previous week’s 768 cases. The number of active cases monitored by the town Department of Health also dropped by nearly half from 411 active cases announced at last Wednesday’s update to only 195 now.

“It’s what we have been told was going to happen,” First Selectman Fred Camillo said Wednesday. “Back in mid-December when we were in that surge, I talked to a doctor and he said you’re probably going to see it peak in mid-January. That was his take on it and that’s exactly what happened.”

Greenwich Hospital has also seen a downward trend. President Diane Kelly on Wednesday said they had 26 COVID-positive patients, four of them in the intensive care unit. The week before, it was 46 patients, she said.

Kelly said it “feels really good” that the Yale New Haven Hospital Health System, which includes Greenwich Hospital, has only 270 COVID-19 patients hospitalized.

Because of the falling numbers, Kelly said Greenwich Hospital has opened up its visitors policy a bit. The hospital will now allow one visitor per patient if the visitor passes a screening process. Most visits had been suspended during the surge in cases.

“This is a little less restrictive than it was just last week,” Kelly said.

Camillo said the town’s numbers look promising but cautioned that Greenwich isn’t in the clear yet.

“I know people are really anxious to get beyond the masks,” he said. “I get this every day now and I’m there too but February is a short month and we want to give ourselves some breathing room. When we get to March, we’re going to be in a different place.”

Already on tap for March is the annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade, which will return after a two-year COVID hiatus.

As for the town’s vaccination rates, 82.3 percent of the population is fully vaccinated.

The newest batch allowed to get the vaccine — ages 5 to 11 — clock in around 46.4 percent. Most of the other age brackets have vaccination percentages in the 80s and 90s. The 25 to 44 age range, however, still lags behind at 76.1 percent.

“I think people get busy in their lives and can think they’re immune to these kinds of things and that in their young, healthy population they’re not going to be effected. ... It’s a little bit of thinking this is not a possibility but the data is clear. Without your vaccines it is a real possibility to come down with COVID and you would do much better if you’ve had your vaccines,” Kelly said. “That’s my personal take on it.”