GREENWICH — A preview of plans to remake the Greenwich Plaza and the central Greenwich train station on Railroad Avenue were met with concerns about parking and traffic flow from the Planning and Zoning Commission.

The project by the Ashforth Company would renovate the station and create retail and restaurant space in the strip of buildings between Steamboat Road and Arch Street. The Bow Tie Cinemas, now closed, would be torn down and replaced with a restaurant and more retail, according to the plan. The rest of the project involves re-cladding and renovating the existing structures.

Architect Frank Prial said the goal was to create “a much more open and transparent” feel to the station and the surrounding retail space, introducing a “gracious” feel. The structures, which were originally built in the early 1970s, would be resurfaced with aluminum, steel and glass. Prial said the modernist style of the current structure would be continued and enhanced.

According to the application filed by attorney Bruce Cohen, “The station itself will be refaced and renovated. Use of new materials, lighting and signage will refresh the station’s exterior facade, giving the station a more distinguished presence on Railroad Avenue.”

The new restaurant would measure 3,800 square feet, with 102 seats. The plan would retain 36 parking spaces at the site.

An earlier plan, featuring the continuation of the movie theater and much more new construction, was withdrawn.

Planning commissioners this week said they would take a hard look at parking at the site when a formal application was put forward this spring.

“Be very cautious about the parking,” Chairwoman Margarita Alban told the development team. “I cannot emphasize enough that we’re concerned about parking.”

The commissioners said there would also be extensive scrutiny about pick-ups and drop-offs at the site.

Cohen, said a traffic study and parking plan would be forthcoming.

“We’re not going to make the parking situation any worse. ... We’re convinced this works well,” he said.

“I think we are all interested in redoing the train station,” said Commissioner Dennis Yeskey, “I’m most concerned about parking.”

Commissioner Nick Macri said he liked the proposed visual improvements that would be made around the train platform, which he called an unappealing “netherworld.” He said he wanted the best possible design for the “gateway to Greenwich,” commenting, “don’t forget the interior.”

Added Commissioner Peter Lowe, “Materials make a difference, those details make a difference. ... I think the design intent is good. I look forward to seeing what you come up with.”

The review Tuesday was for discussion purposes before an official site plan is submitted. The planning commission said the development project should be sent to the Architectural Review Committee for its input.

A local resident, Lucy Krasnor, said she was disappointed that the community would be losing its only movie theater.

“I can’t believe a town of 62,000 could not support a movie theater,” she said.

Cohen said he went to the movies there regularly himself, and “I’ve never seen the theater close to being full.” He said the developers had concluded that continuing a movie theater there was not economically feasible.