New York City police officers and other residents will gather today for the funeral of Officer Wibert Mora who, along with Detective Jason Rivera, was gunned down by a career criminal in possession of two illegal firearms. It is the second funeral for an NYPD officer in less than a week. In all, five officers were shot in the first 21 days of this year. The new NYPD Chief of Department, Kenneth Corey gave a statement in advance of the ceremony, venting his frustration with the broken system of criminal courts in Gotham, lax bail laws, lenient judges and prosecutors, and the gangs that take advantage of these opportunities. There are simply too many police falling into the line of fire and not enough accountability in the municipal government and the courts. But will the powers that be finally listen and help the new Mayor right the ship? (NY Post)

NYPD Chief of Department Kenneth Corey said New York’s Finest have had enough of guns on the streets and the revolving door of justice. Corey’s comments came outside of St. Patrick’s Cathedral Tuesday, as hundreds mourned slain NYPD Officer Wilbert Mora inside — in the second wake for a cop killed in the line of duty in less than one week. “It hits very close to home,” the chief told The Post. “They’re devastated and they’re angry. They’re angry because there’s so many guns on the street and there are no consequences for people who are carrying the illegal guns.

You can watch and listen to Corey’s comments in the video below.

Corey went on to speak about the career criminals who get arrested with illegal guns and are back out on the street the next day with new illegal guns which they then turn on the police. While he didn’t mention anyone by name or any specific policies, it was an obvious reference to the “bail reform laws” that have been passed and the liberal prosecutors and District Attorneys who allow this revolving door of justice to keep on turning.

It’s not as if the problem has gone unnoticed. The Mayor has already moved to reinstate the plainclothes gun crime unit that was ditched under Bill de Blasio and he’s also called for a crackdown on gun crimes. The new Chief of Police has similarly called for more action and tougher sentencing guidelines. Even the Governor has called out the liberal Manhattan District Attorney who attempted to forbid prison sentences for most crimes, reminding him that she has the power to remove him from office.

But that’s not going to be enough. There are still too many members of the City Council and the Democrats in Albany who support these so-called “bail reform” laws. And there are too many judges ready to let violent criminals off with a slap on the wrist in the name of “social justice.”

New York City has some of the strictest gun control laws in the country, if not the world. But those laws only affect the law-abiding people seeking to legally purchase firearms and follow the rules. They have no impact on the actual gang shooters out there who are causing almost all of this havoc. Until we can start arresting and prosecuting the triggermen and then locking them up for a very long time, the vicious cycle will continue.

Sadly, this tragedy is not exclusive to New York City. The Officer Down Memorial Page has already logged 31 line-of-duty deaths of law enforcement officers this year. And far too many others have been wounded but thankfully survived. The people screaming the loudest about “police reform” and emptying the jails need to take a long, hard look in the mirror and ask themselves if they can still tell the actual good guys from the bad guys.