An illegal alien residing in the United States is no longer subject to deportation by ICE for that offense alone. The Biden administration changed the focus of deportations and now only focus on people here illegally who are considered “a threat to our national security, public safety, and border security.” In Joe Biden’s world, drunk drivers are apparently not considered a threat to public safety.

There is a case in Houston of an illegal alien who was driving drunk and rammed his truck into a car driven by a 19-year-old young woman on a Sunday afternoon. She was ejected from her car upon impact and pronounced dead. The illegal alien, Heriberto Fuerte-Padilla, tried to run from the scene but was caught by an off-duty policeman. This happened in November of 2020. The tragic death of this young woman is back in the news now because Fuerte-Padilla will not be returned to Mexico because of the rules change put in place by DHS Secretary Mayorkas in September 2021. DHS initially wanted Fuerte-Padilla deported after serving his punishment but the agency changed course with the new rules and he is no longer considered a priority deportation case. Adrienne Sophia Exum died because Fuerte-Padilla was driving drunk and now he will be allowed to remain in the U.S.

In Biden’s America, deportation requests are canceled for illegal aliens who are “accused, charged, pleaded guilty to felony charges of evading arrest or even those who have already been convicted of drunk driving, drug possession or domestic assault.” The requests for deportation, called detainers, are no longer considered a priority for the Department of Homeland under the control of Mayorkas. The new rules are meant to give a break to illegal aliens with less severe criminal records. Mayorkas lists more serious crimes as illegal aliens who pose a national security risk or who are recent migrants crossing the border.

ICE battled sanctuary jurisdictions during the Biden and Trump administration, claiming they were releasing dangerous criminals into the country. With the new rules under Mayorkas, ICE is now canceling detainers and forcing states to release illegal immigrants with criminal records. Mayorkas insisted being in the country illegally is not reason enough to be deported. ‘The fact an individual is a removable noncitizen therefore should not alone be the basis of an enforcement action against them,’ the DHS head told immigration enforcement agents and officers. ‘We will use our discretion and focus our enforcement resources in a more targeted way. Justice and our country’s well-being require it,’ he added.

This isn’t the only recent case of a deportation being canceled in Texas for illegal aliens drunk driving or under the influence of drugs.

Federal court filings show the Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry are challenging Matorkas’ rules, presenting several examples of canceled detainers. Arizona, Montana and Ohio are also challenging the rules in a separate hearing schedule for the middle of February before a federal judge in Ohio. Another example of a canceled detainer, detailed by Texas and obtained by the Times, is the case of Jose Godoy Vasquez. Vasquez, who is an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, has several convictions spanning from drunk driving in 2013 and drug possession and domestic violence from 2019 to 2021. His current sentence runs through 2025. ICE previously had a detainer request on Vasquez, but told Texas last month it is being canceled under Mayorkas’ new priorities. A third case, according to state records, involved a man named Nay Thar from Thailand, who was convicted of drug possession in 2017, drunken driving and fleeing police in 2018 and sneaking contraband into prison in 2020. State records indicate he was released this month but his deportation request was canceled.

Adrienne Sophia Exum’s mother wants some answers from Joe Biden. Rhonda Exum was told the man would be deported and has since learned that this is not happening. She was not given the courtesy of being told that the deportation order has been rescinded. Rhonda voted for Biden in 2020 and now regrets that vote.

“I really want to know why,” Exum said on “Fox & Friends First” Tuesday. “By him not being deported, it’s like you telling me my daughter’s life didn’t mean anything.” Adrienne’s cousin, Tranette Gamboa, told Fox News’ Todd Piro that she was shocked to find out the man would not be deported. Exum, who voted for Biden in the 2020 presidential election, said she’s disappointed. “I thought he was going to talk for the American people, basically, and not for himself,” she said. “I don’t feel that he has done anything but disappoint.”

The Biden administration’s policies on illegal aliens cost American lives. Drunk driving may be considered a minor offense by some but it kills innocent people, like a 19 year old girl driving on a Sunday afternoon. The new orders essentially turn a blind eye to illegal aliens who break the law when they enter our country and then choose to support them instead of the victims of their crimes. The Biden administration chooses illegal aliens over American citizens. Where is the justice in that? Biden likes to say his immigration policy is compassionate. The humanitarian and public health crises brought on by the Biden border crisis are real and not compassionate at all.

Rhonda Exum has a message for Joe Biden. “My message is: Look out for the American people first.” That isn’t happening in Biden’s administration because they all think they are the smartest people in the room, starting with Biden himself.