Welcome to Net Zero, your daily industry brief on clean energy and Canadian-resource politics.

The Yukon government has struck agreements with several mining companies, resulting in the firms relinquishing a combined 5,031 mineral claims in the territory’s Peel watershed. The agreements are the result of the Peel land use plan, which was signed in 2019 and offers protection for most of the 67,431-square-kilometre region.

The companies that have agreed to forego the claims vary in size. Newmont, the multinational corporation behind the Coffee Gold project in the Dawson area, stepped away from 1,835 claims. Whereas smaller companies ATAC Resources and Generic Gold say they have relinquished 327 and 1,332 claims, respectively.

There are also individuals like prospector Bernard Kreft, who said he relinquished 142 copper, gold and cobalt claims located northeast of Dawson.

“It was a valuable asset in my business,” Kreft said. “But, at the end of the day, this is about respect for the (First) Nations. They’re good people. To me, this was a no-brainer.” CBC News has the full story.

After making minor tweaks to a previous draft proposal, the EU is set to propose rules that would label some gas and nuclear power plants as green investments. The proposal comes after several countries, including Austria, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands, have called on the bloc to not to label gas energy projects as green. Reuters has the details.

A new study published in Nature Climate Change indicated financial losses from flooding events driven by climate change will rise by 26 per cent in the U.S. by 2050. The authors also expect this increase to disproportionately impact disadvantaged communities. The Hill has more.

Progressive reduction of fossil fuel-based plastics is crucial to tackling climate change, according to Virginijus Sinkevicius, the EU’s top environmental official. Plastics production is expected to be a major topic at the upcoming UN Environment Assembly summit starting in Nairobi on Feb. 28. Reuters also has that story.

Meanwhile, a British study suggests that climate change is causing plants in the U.K. to flower up to a month earlier. The study’s authors claim this phenomenon has consequences for birds, insects and whole ecosystems. BBC News has more from the U.K.

On Wednesday morning at 8:59 a.m., West Texas Intermediate was trading at US$89.61 and Brent Crude was going for US$90.14.

Six old-growth activists have been arrested in B.C. after blocking a section of Highway 1 at the south end of the Ironworkers bridge during rush hour. The activists were members of the Save Old Growth environmental organization, which describes itself as “an offshoot” of Extinction Rebellion. North Shore News has more details.

Agnico Eagle Mines and Kirkland Lake Gold said their merger should be completed next week after the gold miners received regulatory approval in Australia. The Ontario-based companies say approval from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board is the final step before the deal closes on Feb. 8. The Canadian Press has more.

Imperial Oil has raised its dividend as it reported a fourth-quarter profit of $813 million, compared to a net loss of $1.15 billion in the same period of 2020. The quarterly dividend increased by 26 per cent to 34 cents a share, up from 27 cents a share. The Canadian Press also has that story.

Finally, Wednesday is Groundhog Day, a tradition the McGill Tribune describes as climate change’s scapegoat. You can read that story here.

Canadian Crude Index was trading at US$73.44 and Western Canadian Select was going for US$75.35 this morning at 9:00 a.m.
• Hydro Quebec signs 40-year deal with Brookfield Renewables for clean energy (Globe and Mail)
• U.S. signals cut to softwood lumber tariffs for most Canadian producers (Financial Post)
• How renters are uniquely vulnerable to climate catastrophes (National Observer)
• In measuring climate change, it’s not just heat, it’s humidity (Associated Press)
• ‘It’s mind-boggling’: For Winter Olympians, impact of climate change hits close to home (USA Today)
• How climate change is washing away precious evidence of our distant past (The Conversation)