In a video posted to social media on Wednesday, Erin O'Toole delivers his parting message as leader of the Official Opposition. (Screenshot)

Erin O’Toole’s parting words as leader of the Official Opposition were ones of optimism and encouragement.

He was removed as Conservative party leader on Wednesday, following a vote from his caucus. He said he will stay on as the MP for his Ontario riding of Durham.

Pointing to the streets outside Parliament, where demonstrators against vaccine mandates and other COVID restrictions have been gathered for five days, the former Conservative leader warned that the country is divided.

Elected officials must respond by listening to all voices — not just the echoes from their own tribes, O’Toole said.

“Work together, because how we as leaders act now will define the next generation,” he said in a video posted to social media.

“If we keep our heads, when all about us are losing theirs … ours will be the future and everything that is in it.”

READ MORE: Tory caucus votes to remove Erin O’Toole as leader

O’Toole also said it was the “honour of a lifetime” to lead the Conservative party.

“I never lose sight of what an honour it is for me to serve my hometown in Parliament,” he said. “And there is not a bad seat in the House of Commons, from the back corner by the curtains where I first sat, to the front rows.”



He thanked his family and told his kids they would be seeing “a little more of me than over the last 18 months.”

Speaking in question period on Wednesday afternoon, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thanked O’Toole and his family for their sacrifice and for taking part in a “difficult life.”

“There is a lot we don’t agree on for the direction of his country,” he said. “But (O’Toole) stepped up to serve his country.”

NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh says he “disagreed fundamentally” with O’Toole on how to help Canadians, but acknowledged the former leader’s “work and sacrifice.”

Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François said O’Toole has always shown great rigour and commitment to his country.

Heading into the House of Commons on Wednesday, Conservative MPs declined to comment on O’Toole’s ousting, but thanked him for his service and his dedication to the party and Canada.

Tory MP Michael Cooper said the leader of the Official Opposition has the most difficult job in Ottawa.

Gérard Deltell, who was named the Tory House leader under O’Toole, said it’s a very sad day for him.

“The decision has been made and (O’Toole) respects the will of the caucus,” he said.

The Conservative caucus will choose an interim leader on Wednesday night.