As of Wednesday morning, it looks like we’ll have to wait a bit longer to find out whether Erin O’Toole will become the first federal political leader to be relieved of his position during a Zoom meeting, courtesy of a simple secret-ballot majority vote by his caucus colleagues.

But regardless of the outcome of today’s virtual faceoff between the embattled Conservative leader and his detractors, it’s fair to say that Conservative MP Michael Chong’s backbench bid to rebalance the power dynamics between the party leader and rank-and-file MPs seems to be working as intended, even if no one knows exactly how it will all play out in the end.

It’s somewhat fitting that it was Chong and his fellow Conservatives who were the first — and the only, so far — caucus to give itself the power to remove its leader via the Reform Act, which is only binding on caucuses that vote to comply with its rules.

That’s precisely what the Conservatives did at their first post-election caucus meeting last fall — a move widely viewed at the time as a distinctly lacklustre show of support for O’Toole’s continuing leadership, even though he said he’d “encouraged (MPs to) vote in favour of all of its provisions,” including the one used to trigger today’s vote.

His supporters were also quick to point out that, while MPs had, in effect, reserved the right to invoke that provision, they hadn’t actually taken the next step, but were simply keeping their options open.

In any case, the House of Commons eventually reconvened for an abbreviated pre-holiday sitting, during which there were no further attempts to oust O’Toole from his position — not openly, that is. But there was no shortage of news reports of deepening internal discontent, particularly after the government’s ban on so-called conversion therapy was fast-tracked through the House without a single recorded vote.

That ended earlier this week with the news that a formal request — or, as it’s called in the Act, a “written notice” — for a leadership review had been submitted to caucus chair Scott Reid. The request was reportedly co-signed by at least 35 MPs, which would put it comfortably over the 20 per cent threshold required by the Reform Act.

It’s worth noting that, as yet, neither the full text of the letter nor the names at the bottom have been released publicly, despite the fact that, according to the Act, “The chair of the caucus shall make public the content of the written notice immediately upon receipt.”

Also still to be determined is exactly how — and when — the results of the vote will be released. Given both parliamentary and party conventions, it’s unlikely to include a full breakdown of the number, but will simply state whether O’Toole will keep his job.

What’s interesting is that the Conservative constitution makes no mention of the Reform Act as a means of removing leaders, which means that if the vote doesn’t go his way, O’Toole might still have to formally submit his resignation to the party.

Meanwhile, members of the suddenly leaderless Conservative caucus would be required to hold a second secret-ballot vote to choose an interim leader “until a new leader has been elected by the party.”

Alternatively, if O’Toole survives the review, that’s the end of it, at least as far as the Reform Act goes, although no rule prohibits another MP from requesting a new review in future.

And while it’s not clear how he’d navigate post-vote relations with MPs who either supported a leadership view or openly stated they’d vote to remove him, he can’t unilaterally return fire by kicking them out of caucus.

Under the same provisions that set the stage for the leadership review, that, too, requires the support of a majority of caucus, and even MPs who might have voted to keep him in the job might not be comfortable expelling those who didn’t.

This post was copy-edited after publication.