The ring of a highly anticipated call from the Office of the Secretary to the Governor General, connecting to the warm voice of Her Excellency, the Right Honourable Mary May Simon, immediately thaws a frigid January afternoon in Ottawa. Sworn in on July 21, 2021, Simon is Canada’s first Indigenous Governor General and the 30th to have been sworn in since 1867.

Asked what her favourite part of life at Rideau Hall has been to date, Simon chooses the motivation of knowing the history and work of those who have occupied her same office and the challenges ahead. “I am always inspired by challenging moments. I don’t see them as a negative thing but rather a challenge that I have to overcome.”

With an impressive list of goals in place, Simon has identified reconciliation as a key priority. Calling reconciliation not a project but really a way of life, she believes that the level of mutual learning, understanding and respect needed between cultures is not yet where it should be in our country today.

Pointing to the recent discovery of more unmarked graves of Indigenous children, at a former residential school in British Columbia, Simon believes that media coverage has confirmed to Canadians the reality of this horrendous part of Canada’s history and that for reconciliation to occur the wrongs of the past must be addressed, Indigenous people must be given the space, and support to heal and we as a nation must heal together.

Simon insists that education is another critical aspect of reconciliation and building a better future. This entails the integration of Canada’s true history into the curriculum, educating one another and creating a better understanding of what Canada is and has been. “I also want Canadians to know that reconciliation is not just about Indigenous people. It is really about relationship building between people, cultures and society and that we need to do this together. Reconciliation is not an Indigenous issue it is a Canadian issue.”

Hearing the many stories of Canadians who have suffered during the pandemic, has reaffirmed Simon’s commitment to the improvement of Canada’s mental health care system. “I always say that when I listen to people talking that people are experiencing a lack of support and I really believe we need to increase our capacity to provide support to people that are in a state of distress.” Impressing that it is very difficult for people to overcome mental health challenges without support, Simon sees current wait lists as way too long and the need for more resources to meet the mental health needs of Canadians. Encouraging those in distress to reach out for help, Simon hopes for a future understanding that, “mental well-being is very much tied to your ability to be a healthy person.”

Keenly aware of astronomically high suicide rates of children in the North and sharing her own experience of a niece’s dark days of mental health struggles, while living in Ottawa and receiving care from CHEO, Simon is clear that children also require access to tailored support and monitoring to keep them safe while they are in the process of trying to feel better.

Self-care for Simon includes taking the time to stay connected to the large family she adores. Nana to 12 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, with “baby” being her all-time favourite smell, Simon hopes they will remember her as, “The kindest, wisest woman.”

Her own treasured childhood memory took place at the age of 15 during a year of living on the land with her family, about 90 miles up the George River from home. With access limited to dog-team in winter, canoe or small plane, her father built a cabin, hunted and fished. When Christmas arrived, Simon remembers she and her six siblings feeling a bit blue until alerted to the incoming hum of a tiny plane. A prearranged drop of presents, candy and oranges led to the unforgettable excitement that can still be heard in Simon’s telling of the story today.

Calling her Inuk mother, father, who moved to the Arctic for work, and grandmother her greatest heroes, Simon credits the way she was brought up and being taught that she could live in two worlds, for the strength and ability to do her work, and act as a bridge. “I have been very fortunate that I was able learn at an early age that you don’t have to give up your culture or your identity to be able to live in a different culture.”

EDS: The copy-edited version of this story was removed after publication.