Soon after Erin O’Toole was ousted as Conservative leader, the race to temporarily replace him began.

O’Toole was removed by his caucus after a 73-45 vote, Conservative caucus chair Scott Reid announced Wednesday afternoon. The vote ends months of infighting after the party lost the last election.

O’Toole was endorsed by 38 MPs during the 2020 leadership contest.

MPs used the Reform Act to depose O’Toole as parliamentary leader. The legislation allows MPs, not members of the party itself, to decide a leader’s fate. MPs will meet on Wednesday night to elect an interim leader. O’Toole will continue representing the southern Ontario riding of Durham, he said in a Twitter video.

He resigned as leader of the Conservative Party, as well, according to an email obtained by iPolitics that was sent to party members.

“As President of the Conservative Party of Canada’s National Council, I have received Mr. O’Toole’s resignation as Leader of the Conservative Party of Canada, pursuant to Article 10.8.2 of the Constitution of the Conservative Party of Canada,” wrote Robert Batherson, president of the party’s national council.

Batherson thanked O’Toole for his work as leader.

“Few will ever know the effort it takes to be the leader of our party,” he wrote.

Alberta Premier Jason Kenney, who endorsed O’Toole’s 2020 leadership bid, also thanked him.

“Thank-you to Erin O’Toole for his service as Leader of the Conservative Party of Canada during an incredibly difficult time,” Kenney wrote on Twitter. “I hope that Conservatives remember the importance of unity as they debate the future.”

The national council will work with the interim leader, who can’t run to replace O’Toole full time. The council hasn’t set a date for the next leadership race.

The council’s responsibility “under Article 10.9.3” of the party’s constitution is “to appoint the chair and members of the Leadership Election Organizing Committee (LEOC),” Batherson wrote. “Once appointed, the LEOC is then charged with deciding the rules and procedures for the leadership-selection process, including dispute resolution. National council will meet soon to discuss this.”

Conservative MP Mark Strahl said he’d like a new leader to be in place by the fall.

Seconds after Reid announced the result just before 1 p.m. on Wednesday, New Brunswick MP John Williamson announced he’s running for the interim job.

“As caretaker leader, I will respect what our movement, party, and caucus have to say,” Williamson said in a statement. “I came from the grassroots of this party, and I have deep respect for Parliament.”

Williamson has been involved in Conservative politics for decades, including as former prime minister Stephen Harper’s director of communications. He endorsed Peter McKay in the 2020 leadership race.

Fellow New Brunswicker, Conservative MP Rob Moore, has also thrown his hat into the ring, as has Kerry-Lynne Findlay, who was minister of National Revenue from 2013 to 2015.

Longtime Conservative MP Marilyn Gladu said she’s “thinking about” running to permanently replace O’Toole, whom she ran against in 2020.

Conservative MP Ed Fast, who refused to be part of former leader Andrew Scheer’s shadow cabinet, won’t be running.

After Harper resigned as leader following the 2015 election, Rona Ambrose held the interim position until 2017. Scheer won the subsequent leadership race, but, like O’Toole, was shown the door after the 2019 election.