Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole removes his mask as he steps up to the podium at a news conference on Parliament Hill in October 2021.(Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press)

Erin O’Toole is out as leader of the Conservative Party of Canada.

The majority of the Tory caucus voted to remove him in a secret ballot during a virtual caucus meeting on Wednesday.

“There are 119 MPs in the CPC (Conservative Party of Canada) caucus.” said chair Scott Reid in a statement. “The chair did not vote. Therefore, 118 votes were cast. Of these, 45 were in favour of endorsing the leadership of Erin O’Toole, and 73 were in favour of replacing Erin O’Toole as leader of the Conservative party.”

The caucus hasn’t picked an interim leader yet.

Thirty-five MPs signed a letter asking for the vote, due to dissatisfaction with the direction the party has taken. The letter was sent to Reid on Monday.

Any party that adopts Tory MP Michael Chong’s 2013 Reform Act must review its leadership if a written notice signed by at least 20 per cent of caucus members is submitted to the caucus chair.

READ MORE: The Tories can challenge O’Toole’s leadership in three ways

Wednesday’s vote was the last of many challenges to O’Toole’s leadership that began immediately after the Tories lost the Sept. 21 federal election.

O’Toole won the leadership by campaigning on “true blue” conservatism, but, during the federal election campaign, he raised the ire of some Conservatives by supporting a price on carbon and promising to keep the Liberals’ firearms ban — policies the Tories have long opposed.

His efforts to sacrifice seats in Alberta for ones in Ontario and Quebec didn’t pay off, and the party won 119 seats, two fewer than in 2019, when 121 MPs were elected under Andrew Scheer’s leadership.

READ MORE: O’Toole’s leadership a key question in race for Tory-council seat

The day after the election, then-Ontario Conservative party national councillor Bert Chen started a petition for an early review of O’Toole’s leadership.

In November, Conservative Sen. Denise Batters began collecting signatures, also for an early leadership review.

“As leader, Mr. O’Toole has watered down, and even entirely reversed, our policy positions, without the input of party or caucus members,” Batters said in her petition, which was ruled invalid by the Conservative national council.

READ MORE: Despite invalidity, Batters continues campaign to review O’Toole

Most recently, two electoral-district associations in Western Canada — one in Alberta and the other in Saskatchewan — passed nearly identical motions to formally petition the national council for a leadership review.

Party members elected O’Toole in August 2020 after Scheer stepped down from the top role.

O’Toole won on the third and final ballot, with 57 per cent of points. Former cabinet minister Peter MacKay came in second.

In a statement issued late Monday, O’Toole welcomed the vote on his leadership, saying, “I’m not going anywhere, and I’m not turning back.”

This story was copy-edited after publication.