'NATO forces must meet the challenge of the fast-changing character and conduct of warfare, which now stretches across a mosaic of information war, cyberwar, and increasingly precise and rapid "hyper war." '

The NATO alliance is now facing what could be the most complex set of challenges in its history.

Given the nature and extent of the threats against citizens of the alliance from Vancouver to Vilnius, urgency must be the hallmark of Strategic Concept 2022 — in essence, the alliance’s manifesto — to more clearly stress defence against, and deterrence of, Russian aggression in the region.

Russia continues to pose the most immediate threat to NATO (also called the North Atlantic Alliance). The latter will continue seeking dialogue with Russia and honouring the NATO-Russia Founding Act, even though Russia continues to breach the values, principles, trust, and commitments that were meant to underpin the NATO-Russia Council.

Much will depend on Russia’s aggression toward Ukraine, and the alliance can’t stand aside. NATO should launch a Ukrainian Deterrence Initiative to provide military equipment and training, as well as enhance Ukraine’s resilience.

Terrorism continues to challenge the rules-based international order by undermining democracy and stability across the globe.

China’s rise as a military power will be the main cause of change in the coming decade. While NATO must seek to maintain a constructive dialogue with China, possibly through some form of NATO-China Council, Beijing’s growing influence and power present challenges that the alliance must address.

NATO must also grasp failure, and reflect on hard lessons from the chaotic and tragic withdrawal from Afghanistan. The need for realistic political objectives allied to strategic patience must be reinforced by strengthened political cohesion and the equitable sharing of risk and cost. Mass disruption and mass destruction are merging into a continuum of risk, challenge, and threat, which the alliance must contend with across a broad spectrum of tasks, from defence and deterrence to engagement.

The alliance will continue to lead the collective defence of Europe in accordance with Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. NATO remains vital to effective crisis management, and has a critical role to play in promoting co-operative security with partners in and around Europe and across the wider world.

Something old, something new? The principle of resilience, making civil society more robust, is anchored in Article 3 of the alliance’s founding treaty. NATO has also reaffirmed that national and collective resilience is a vital component of credible deterrence and defence. Cyberattacks and information warfare on critical civilian and military infrastructures are now deemed clear and present dangers, and must be countered.

But it’s deterrence and defence that must remain NATO’s core business.

If the alliance is to remain credible as a peacekeeper, NATO must always be a capable warfighter. NATO forces must meet the challenge of the fast-changing character and conduct of warfare, which now stretches across a mosaic of information war, cyberwar, and increasingly precise and rapid “hyper war.”

U.S. armed forces will continue to lead NATO for operations in Europe, but they’re engaged with the world. By 2030, a more equitable sharing of alliance burdens is needed, built on a commitment by the European allies to field 50 per cent of NATO’s minimum military requirement. Call it European strategic autonomy or strategic responsibility; either way, it realizes that greater European military capability will be vital.

By 2030, Canadian and European allies must be able to deploy a NATO Allied Command Operations Mobile Heavy Force (AMHF). By consolidating all Allied Rapid Response Forces into a single pool of forces, the AMHF could act in any and all emergencies as a high-end first responder NATO Future Force that reinforces rather than drains the Americans.

Fail to act now, and Europe could face a digital Pearl Harbor from which it wouldn’t recover. A catastrophic “bolt from the blue” would combine strategy, capability, new technologies of intelligent design, artificial intelligence, Big Data, quantum computing, etc., to decisively change the character of warfare, and Europe with it.

By 2030, NATO must be a very different alliance, because it will be in a very different place. Otherwise, it could fail, although any such failure might not be the catastrophic demise some have predicted for so long. A Potemkin NATO would simply be yet more European-defence pretence: a pretty, reassuring façade of false security.

Strategic Concept 2022 is the best chance NATO leaders have to set the alliance on course for 2030. Collectively, they must generate the necessary will, vision, and leadership.

Julian Lindley-French is a fellow at the Canadian Global Affairs Institute and chair of The Alpen Group.

The views, opinions and positions expressed by all iPolitics columnists and contributors are the author’s alone. They do not inherently or expressly reflect the views, opinions and/or positions of iPolitics.