NEW YORK CITY, NY – Whoopi Goldberg, co-host of ABC’s “The View,” has been suspended from the show following controversial claims she made about the Holocaust.

Goldberg made these claims on an episode of the View on Monday, January 31, when she and her fellow hosts were discussing the Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel “Maus,” which was written by a Holocaust survivor and has been banned by a school district in Tennessee.

In the conversation that followed, Goldberg argued that the Holocaust was “not about race.”

“If we’re going to do this, then let’s be truthful about it, because the Holocaust isn’t about race. No. It’s not about race.”

Goldberg went on to say:

“But it’s, it’s not about race. It’s not about race. It’s about man’s inhumanity to man. That’s what it’s about….

“But these are two white groups of people.”

“Well, it’s about white supremacy. That’s what it’s about. It’s about going after Jews and Gypsies.”

Goldberg continued over some crosstalk from her colleagues:

“The minute you’re turning it into race, it goes down this alley. Let’s talk about it for what it is. It’s how people treat each other.

“It’s a problem. It doesn’t matter if you’re black or white, because black, white, Jews, Ita-, everybody eats each other.”

Backlash to Goldberg’s comments was swift and harsh.

According to the New York Post, Liora Rez, executive director of watchdog group StopAntisemitism, referred to Goldberg’s commentary as “reprehensible,” adding:

“I am the granddaughter of Holocaust survivors on both sides of my family. To say that the Holocaust was not about race when everything the Nazis did was to ensure the purity of the Aryan race is blatantly untrue, and it is reprehensible.”

“Six million Jews were gassed, starved and massacred because we were deemed an inferior race. For Goldberg to minimize our trauma and suffering by claiming we are from a privileged class is the epitome of whitewashing and gaslighting Jews, and it needs to stop.”

Twitter erupted with criticism as well.

“Whoopi Goldberg’s comments reinforce how many see Jews and Judaism as simply a concept, a subject of academia or history, not real people with real families and real pasts.

“We are but a concept or subject of discussion for so many, and that’s it.”

“Whoopi Goldberg explaining that the Holocaust wasn’t about race because these were ‘two groups of white people’ isn’t just insipid, it’s insidious.

“It’s downplaying the minority status of Jews in order to uphold bullshit intersectional arguments that justify anti-Semitism today.”

Goldberg apologized for her statements on Twitter later that Monday, saying:

“On today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’

“I should have said it is about both.

“As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazis systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – Who they deemed to be an inferior race.’

“The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused.”

On Tuesday, February 1, according to Page Six, Goldberg returned to “The View” and expanded on her tweeted apology, saying:

“I tweeted about it last night but I kind of want you to hear it from me directly. I feel a responsibility.”

“My words upset so many people, which was never my intention. I understand why. The information I got was really helpful.

“I said the Holocaust wasn’t about race and was instead about man’s inhumanity to man. It is indeed about race because Hitler and the Nazis considered Jews to be the inferior race.”

“Words matter and mine are no exception. I regret my comments and I stand corrected.”

According to Page Six, the apologies are proving insufficient for some ABC insiders, who believe that Goldberg should be fired.

One unidentified insider stated to the news outlet:

“ABC staffers and Disney Network execs are saying Whoopi went way too far. And board members are not happy with her apology and want a fuller retraction.

“The word is that Whoopi is in ‘deep s–t.’”

The insider added that the controversy is not expected to go away soon. According to Page Six:

“This will cast a shadow over everything for a while. Even Joy Behar was heard saying backstage that Whoopi is ‘dead wrong’ and may not ever recover from this,” the source said. “Joy found this particularly troubling and couldn’t believe Whoopi wouldn’t stand corrected until she was forced.”

In addition, a “senior ABC news source” interviewed by the Daily Mail told the outlet:

“These comments are absolutely abhorrent and outrageous and it’s time Disney and ABC grew a pair and fired her.”

Comparing ABC/Disney’s present actions to a previous situation with Roseanne Barr, the source added:

“Disney took swift action and fired Roseanne Barr when she posted the awful tweet about Valerie Jarrett, yet Whoopi made her vile comments on ABC’s air and they do nothing about it?

“Where is the leadership from within Disney?”

“[Disney content chairman] Peter Rice needs to step up and do his job and fire Whoopi. How is this appropriate at all? What message do we send as a company?

“Why is there one rule for Whoopi Goldberg – who gets a pass on everything and another rule for everyone else?’

“There is a blind spot on The View when it comes to anti-Semitism. It is never a big enough hate crime for them.”

ABC News has indeed not fired Goldberg, but they have taken one significant step in response to Goldberg’s claims. Apologies were evidently not enough for ABC News president Kim Godwin, who said in a statement:

“Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments.

“While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments.

“The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities.”

Do you want to join our private family of first responders and supporters? Get unprecedented access to some of the most powerful stories that the media refuses to show you. Proceeds get reinvested into having active, retired and wounded officers, their families and supporters tell more of these stories. Click to check it out.

Looking to be sued? Whoopi Goldberg makes outrageous claim about Rittenhouse, race and murdering people

The following contains editorial content which is the opinion of the author.

One might think that a show which features Sunny, Joy and Whoopi might be somewhat positive…maybe a little funny. Instead, The View is a collection of unhinged has-been lunatics who bring absolutely nothing to the table.

They are merely a gaggle of pecking hens who spend an hour every day still obsessing on President Trump and more recently picking on an 18-year-old teenager, Kyle Rittenhouse.

On Tuesday, Goldberg…who used to possess a modicum of talent…took after Rittenhouse again, this time making the absurd claim that Rittenhouse has apparently delivered the message that “it’s OK to shoot white people too,” Breitbart reports. Even those who want to kill you, apparently.

Goldberg said, “All eyes are on Wisconsin after lawyers made closing arguments on whether 17-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse traveling across state lines to take up arms before killing two men and wounding a third during a night of social justice protests and unrest were acts of self-defense or was it vigilante murder?”

Ah, vigilante. Last week it was white supremacy. When that argument proved to be abjectly absurd, since all involved were white, the talking points went out to the lamestream media, and apparently the White House and all of a sudden, Kyle Rittenhouse is a vigilante! Gasp!

Goldberg conveniently left a few facts out of her little diatribe. First of all she ignored the fact that the man who was wounded…Gaige Grosskreutz…is a career criminal with arrests including burglary, drunk driving and domestic violence, according to the New York Post.

What’s more, Grosskreutz, a member of antifa himself crossed state lines with a firearm which he was legally banned from carrying as a convicted felon.

He then pulled that firearm on Rittenhouse and was about to shoot him, and admitted in testimony he was pointing it at Rittenhouse. Grosskreutz had no ties to Kenosha other than going there to stir up trouble.

In the case of Rittenhouse, much has been made about him crossing state lines with a firearm, however one little issue…Rittenhouse worked in Kenosha and both his father and grandmother live in Kenosha. He has close ties to the community.

Furthermore, he was legally in possession of the AR-15, which was why the firearms charge was dismissed by the judge.

Secondly, the second “victim”—Anthony Huber, another antifa freak struck Rittenhouse with a skateboard at least once and was about to hit him again when he was shot be Rittenhouse, clearly in self-defense. He also had no ties to the city of Kenosha and was there for one reason and one reason only—to cause trouble.

Finally the other person shot by Rittenhouse—a psychotic child sex abuser who had just gotten out of jail after sexually molesting at least five boys, some as young as eleven-years-old named Joseph Rosenbaum.

Armed with a chain, Rosenbaum threatened to kill Rittenhouse and had actively been involved in arson and vandalism in Kenosha prior to setting his sights on Rittenhouse.

As Rosenbaum reached to try to take the gun away from Rittenhouse, he dispatched him to hell where he belongs. These three were criminal thugs, not innocent victims as Goldberg seems to imply with her unhinged, illiterate rant.

Goldberg continued, playing off the other central theme circulating among the lunatic fringe such as lamestream media talking heads, Hollywood leftists and far-left Democrat moonbats like Cori Bush, that of “open season” on blacks, changing the theme a bit.

“So the jury is deliberating as we speak. So I mean, how do you see this ending? I think it’s really a red light for white folks coming to help at social justice protests. Because basically, what they’re saying is, ‘Oh, it’s OK to shoot white people too.’”

No Whoopi…what they’re saying is when you are attacked by criminal thugs, no matter the race, you have the right to defend yourself.

Unfortunately, Goldberg plays dumb (we realize that’s not a stretch for her) when every single weekend in Chicago, between 30-50 people are shot, an overwhelming majority of them blacks. She further says nothing when children…some as young as one or two-years-old…are shot and killed in Chicago, Philadelphia, New York City and St. Louis.

No, it’s easy for Goldberg and her gaggle of unhinged dumb asses to go after a white teenager who, had he not decided to used justifiable deadly physical force on these three criminals, would be dead himself. Of course it’s also easy to pontificate when you are protected by armed bodyguards. Such hypocrites.

Whoopi, Sunny, and Joy…talk about a contradiction in terms.

Want to make sure you never miss a story from Law Enforcement Today? With so much “stuff” happening in the world on social media, it’s easy for things to get lost.