President Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. has waded into the Hilariacommented on the recent scandal over Hilaria Baldwin's fake Spanish heritage that has emerged in recent days.

'Alec Baldwin should play Alec Baldwin when SNL parodies his wife pretending she's Spanish for the last few decades as opposed to the basic white girl from Mass that she actually is. It would be the first funny thing Saturday Night Live has produced in years,' wrote Don Jr on Wednesday evening.

It was the second tweet of the evening by the president's son who had earlier tweeted: 'They're confused as to why anyone would spend decades lying about your place of birth and fake an accent...'

That first tweet by Don Jr came in response to a news article by the Daily Caller which stated 'Hilaria Baldwin Says People Are Just 'Confused' About Her Fake Accent, Spanish Heritage.'

Trump Jr.'s comments come more than a week after an initial Twitter thread, posted on December 21 explained how Baldwin has spoken on and off with a Spanish accent for years, listed her birthplace as Mallorca, Spain, and even appeared to forget the English word for 'cucumber' during a TV appearance on the Today Show.

The celebrity yoga instructor, influencer and wife of actor Alec Baldwin told the New York Times on Wednesday, 'There is not something I'm doing wrong, and I think there is a difference between hiding and creating a boundary.'

Asked about why her CAA talent agency biography lists her as having been born in Mallorca when she was, in fact, born in Boston to American parents, she implied the powerful agency must have found the information on the internet and said, 'I rarely at all work with CAA now. It was very disappointing.'

Her bio no longer lists her place of birth and CAA has declined to comment.

Hilaria also told a podcast this year that 'I moved here [to America] when I was 19 to go to NYU from . . . my family lives in Spain, they live in Mallorca', adding, 'I knew no pop culture.'

Although the family may have holidayed there, her parents — a successful American doctor and academic respectively — only retired to Majorca in 2011.

Hilaria went by the name Hillary until some time after 2009, some of her classmates have pointed out.

She has also been featured in Hola! and Latina magazines, which angered Hispanic and Latina women who pointed out why it was offensive.

'As people are able to come out as different parts of themselves and how they identify and have people listen, I think that's extremely important,' Baldwin told the Times by way of explanation as to why she had adopted so much of Spanish culture as her own, 'These are important conversations to have.'

In the media, she has been identified as Spanish ever since she married Baldwin.

Hilaria denied she had misled anyone about her ethnicity, and dug herself deeper by claiming she had always been honest about her Boston roots. She had grown up in Spain and the U.S., she insisted she and her family occasionally lapses into speaking Spanish.

Husband, Alec, appeared to be in on the charade in a TV interview a few years ago in which he teased his wife's 'accent', explaining 'my wife is from Spain'.

Earlier this week he was left to ramble in a meandering post online in which he rubbished social media and defended his wife.

'There are things that have been said recently about the people I love that are ridiculous, just ridiculous . . . consider the source,' he said.

CAN'T KEEP TRACK OF HER OWN STORY: HILARIA'S LATEST CONTRADICTIONS Hilaria claimed that she told husband Alec from the off that she was from Boston despite his now infamous 2013 Letterman interview in which he claimed she is Spanish. 'My wife is from Spain,' the 62-year-old had said. 'I walked by him,' Hilaria told the Times of meeting Alec in a vegan restaurant in 2011. 'He said, 'Where are you from?' And I said, 'I'm from Boston.' That was the first thing I said, that has always been my narrative.' Yet, two years later, Alec was on Letterman saying she was from Spain, which she did not give an explaination for. Why her Spanish accent changes: Hilaria says that despite being raised in Boston, she speaks in English with a Spanish accent depending on her emotions at the time. The 36-year-old also claimed she was confused about the word for cucumber on the 'Today Show' because she was nervous to be on live TV for one of the first times. Yet she is clearly heard asking for the word in English. How much time she has spent in Spain: Hilaria now says that she was born in Boston but started to visit Spain annually as a baby, implying she only vacationed in the country. She has previously only spoken about the Spanish island Mallorca where her parents and older brother like but not claims to have spent most of their family vacation time on mainland Spain in Madrid, Seville and Valencia. She told the Times that Spain 'was part of my childhood' but could not say how much time she had spent there in total. Claim she went to school in Spain: 'Sometimes there was school involved. Sometimes it was vacation. It was such a mix, mishmash, is that the right word? Like a mix of different things.' In the interview, Hilaria suggested that she went to school in Spain but there is not evidence of this. The story she told the New York Times leaves ambiguity on whether she moved to New York from Spain as she has previously said or whether she moved from another part of the US. 'I was born in Boston. I spent time in Boston and in Spain. My family now lives in Spain. I moved to New York when I was 19 years old and I have lived here ever since,' she told the Times. 'For me, I feel like I have spent 10 years sharing that story over and over again. And now it seems like it's not enough.' Yet Hilaria had previously said she moved from Spain. Profiles stating she was born in Spain: Hilaria alleges that she did not know that magazine ¡Hola! had written that she is Spanish as she does not read pieces about herself. And claims that talent organization Creative Artists Agency must have pulled their bio that states she was born in Mallorca, Spain, from the internet without fact checking.