MARTINEZ — New felony charges have been filed against the couple that was caught on camera painting over a Black Lives Matter mural in downtown Martinez, and this time they’re charged with burglarizing a dead man’s home in Walnut Creek.

David Nelson, 54, and Nicole Anderson, 43, were charged Jan. 12 with second degree burglary, a felony. Additionally, Nelson is charged with two counts of possessing methamphetamine for sale, and authorities say nearly a half-pound of methamphetamine was seized in the investigation.

The couple are already facing pending vandalism and civil rights violation charges for painting over the Black Lives Matter mural on the street outside the Wakefield Taylor Courthouse, in Martinez, on July 4, 2020. Their trial was supposed to start in 2022, but it’s unclear if these new charges will upend the schedule.

The attorney for Anderson and Nelson didn’t immediately return a request for comment.

Prosecutors allege that Nelson and Anderson broke into the home of a recently-deceased man on Adler Avenue in unincorporated Walnut Creek. Authorities say the sheriff was receiving regular calls in December from residents complaining that cars were parking there are irregular hours.

On Dec. 4, two cars later linked to Nelson and Anderson were seen outside, according to authorities. The following day, a deputy pulled over Nelson near the area, searched his vehicle, and allegedly found property from the home, as well as approximately 80 grams of methamphetamine. On Dec. 22, police served a search warrant at the couple’s Martinez home and found more of the deceased man’s property, as well as approximately 120 grams of methamphetamine.

The couple are due in court Feb. 7 for an arraignment hearing, in Martinez, records show.

The mural incident received national media coverage. Video of it went viral, and a large protest opposing the alleged vandalism — as well as a counter protest supporting it– were held in downtown Martinez in the days after.

Nelson and Anderson’s attorney gave subsequent media interviews where he called the hate crime charge “outrageous” and politically motivated.