Fans of BBC One drama The Responder have flocked to social media to sing the show’s praises following the series finale.

The crime drama, which stars Martin Freeman, has hugely impressed both the public and critics since the first episode hit screens in January.

And Wednesday night’s series finale didn’t disappoint, leaving everything wrapped up – just messily enough to leave room for a second series.

Fans took to Twitter to praise the ‘brilliant’ show following the final episode, with many lauding Martin’s exceptional acting in the role of Scouse officer Chris Carson.

‘What a corker of a programme,’ one person wrote. ‘Best drama I have seen in a long time! Give this man a BAFTA, such a superb actor’.

‘Outstanding work by all involved,’ another said. ‘Look forward to the awards flooding in and the second series.’

One praised the ‘stunning writing [and] marvellous acting’, saying it would ‘surely’ be nominated for a Bafta, while another agreed it ‘deserves awards’.

‘Whatever award categories the programme actors are nominated for; then they should win the lot,’ another fan declared.

Another fan said Martin ‘smashed’ the role of Chris, calling it an ‘award-winning performance’.

And very many more called for the BBC to commission The Responder for a second series.

The dramatic finale was a rollercoaster to say the least, with the episode tackling everything from Rachel’s abusive boyfriend to Chris and Casey’s lucky escape from dangerous drug dealers.

For many, The Responder finishing leaves a big TV-shaped hole in their lives, with not many shows able to live up to the drama and chaos of the BBC drama.

But considering the phenomenal response, and the fact that writer Tony Schumacher has himself said he wants the show to get a second series, there’s hope The Responder will return before too long.

On Wednesday, hours before the final episode aired, a viewer urged Tony to ‘get series two written! No slacking!’

The Responder is available to watch on BBC iPlayer.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : The Responder: Will there be a series 2 of the Martin Freeman drama?

MORE : The Responder: Viewers applaud Martin Freeman’s ‘flawless’ scouse accent as Stephen Graham comparisons flood in