Arsenal have already identified the three players they want to sign this summer and are prepared to splash the cash in order to land them, according to reports.

The Gunners endured a frustrating January window in which a host of players left – either permanently or on loan – but no new signings arrived, leaving manager Mikel Arteta particularly light up front and in central midfield.

Arsenal had tried to sign a new forward in the shape of Serie A top scorer Dusan Vlahovic, but the Serbian elected to join Italian giants Juventus.

Two new forwards will be on Arsenal’s shopping list in the summer and, according to The Sun, they want to sign both Alexander Isak and Dominic Calvert-Lewin.

Real Sociedad striker Isak was heavily linked with a move to north London during the January window – with Arsenal fans even going into meltdown over a number plate spotted in the capital – but the Spanish side were adamant he would not leave unless his release clause was met.

Arsenal feel Isak is worth significantly less than that £75million buyout, though if push comes to shove in the summer they could be prepared to pay it.

Everton, meanwhile, value Calvert-Lewin at around £60m and the total expenditure on the two attackers could cost Arsenal as much as £135m.

The third major acquisition Arsenal are looking at is Wolves midfielder Ruben Neves, who could be available for a fee of around £45m, potentially taking the Gunners’ spending to the £180m mark if all three players are successfully recruited.

But it is a price Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke is willing to pay, with the billionaire, who has been impressed with the impact of recent signings, keen to show his faith in Arteta and upgrade the squad – though the spending spree is dependant on one big factor.

In order to finance the moves, Arsenal must finish in the top four, while the lure of Champions League football will also be necessary in order to convince the three players to move to the Emirates.

If a top-four finish is not secured, Arsenal may have to re-think their transfer plans, though the club also hope to raise money through player sales.

The north Londoners believe they can make as much as £70m from selling on-loan players Matteo Guendouzi, Lucas Torreira, Hector Bellerin, Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Reiss Nelson, Alex Runarsson and Konstantinos Mavropanos.

William Saliba, Pablo Mari and Folarin Balogun, meanwhile, are likely to be welcomed back into the squad when their loans end to bolster Arteta’s options – particularly if he has a European campaign to content with.

MORE : ‘We’re in contact with him’ – Lyon chief confirms approach for Arsenal contract rebel Alexandre Lacazette

MORE : William Saliba will walk into Arsenal’s team and is already up there with Thiago Silva, says Montpellier striker Stephy Mavididi

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.