Carl Woods has encouraged people struggling with their mental health to contact him on Only Fans to ‘talk it through’.

The car dealer, 32, who is engaged to Katie Price, joined the platform last month, announcing his new venture just hours after Katie revealed she was joining the site.

While OnlyFans is better known for sexually explicit photos and videos, both Carl and Katie have suggested they will be using the platform in a broader sense.

Katie previously said her account will be ‘a place for me to share my world and my adventures with my closest supporters in my own authentic voice.’

Now Carl has offered his OnlyFans account as a place where his fans can reach out to him if they are suffering mentally.

Taking to Instagram stories on Wednesday, the model said in a now-deleted video: ‘My OnlyFans isn’t just about the images and videos, it’s about me being there for you.

‘So if you’re suffering or having a crap day or your mental health is suffering I’m there.

‘Send me a message and we can talk it through,’ he said, adding: ‘Everyone needs that.’

The clip saw Carl speak directly to followers through the camera, besides a banner which read: ‘All of us have mental health.’

It is unclear why Carl deleted the story after publishing it on Wednesday afternoon.

The former Love Island star announced he was joining the site in late January and has since been active on the platform, sharing old snaps and updates on his life as well as more explicit images.

Katie, meanwhile, announced she would be returning to her roots as a glamour model on the site with a photocall for OnlyFans at the Holborn Studios in London.

The 43-year-old wore a full nun’s habit and wimple, with a large pink and purple sash over the top with the words ‘My body my rules.’

Metro.co.uk has reached out to reps for Carl Woods for comment.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Katie Price’s fiancé Carl Woods promises ‘100% exclusive content’ as he joins her in launching an OnlyFans account

MORE : Katie Price insists joining OnlyFans is all about ‘feminism’ as she refuses to ‘give her body away’