Rudy Giuliani's star witness Melissa Carone has slammed Dominion Voting Systems for threatening her with a defamation lawsuit over her election fraud claims.

Carone, of Michigan, said in an interview with Fox 2 Detroit: 'I don't know who the hell they think they are,' Carone said. 'Sorry, excuse my language, but they are not telling me what to do.'

Her response came just days after attorneys for Dominion Voting Systems sent a scathing cease and desist letter rebuking Carone, the former contractor who grew to infamy after she claimed the company helped President-elect Joe Biden rig the election.

The letter was one of many sent to allies of President Donald Trump and those who have insisted on claiming that the company 'rigged or improperly influenced' the 2020 presidential election.

Dominion, the company that supplied the hardware and software for voting machines in the election, slammed the 'smear campaign' and Carone's claims as 'outlandish'.

'You gained international infamy earlier this month as Rudy Giuliani's so-called 'star witness' who could supposedly corroborate outlandish accusations that Dominion has somehow rigged or otherwise improperly influenced the outcome of the November 2020 US presidential election,' attorneys Thomas Clare and Megan Meier said in the letter, obtained by Law & Crime.

Carone, of Michigan, said in an interview with Fox 2 Detroit: 'I don't know who the hell they think they are,' Carone said. 'Sorry, excuse my language, but they are not telling me what to do.' 'Without a shred of corroborating evidence, you have claimed that you witnessed several different versions of voter fraud—ranging from one story involving a van, to other accusations that votes were counted multiple times. You published these statements even though you knew all along that your attacks on Dominion have no basis in reality.'

Earlier this month, Dominion sent letters to Sidney Powell and various media entities, 'demanding retraction of their myriad false and conspiratorial claims about Dominion'.

'We write to you now because you have positioned yourself as a prominent leader of the ongoing misinformation campaign by pretending to have some sort of "insider's knowledge" regarding Dominion's business activities, when in reality you were hired through a staffing agency for one day to clean glass on machines and complete other menial tasks,' the letter to Carone continued.

But Carone disputed the claim that she was hired as a glass cleaner, saying: 'My job description was in IT support.

'I don’t know what they mean when they say cleaning glass. I never cleaned glass.'

In the letter, Dominion demands that Carone 'cease and desist making defamatory claims' about the company and she keep 'all documents relating to Dominion and your smear campaign against the company'.

Carone's cease and desist letter states that 'litigation regarding these issues is imminent'.

Dominion is demanding Carone preserve all communications between Sidney Powell, Lin Wood, Jenna Ellis, Giuliani and 'any other member of the Trump campaign'.

Carone has also been instructed to keep records of 'every' person who has 'compensated' the self-proclaimed whistleblower, or 'any entity' related to her, for 'making public statements' about Dominion.

'No, I’ll be saving them,' Carone told Fox 2. 'I’ll be saving them on my personal computer and if I feel like deleting them I’ll delete them, but they’re not going to see any of my private conversations - I’ll tell you that.'

'Or any personal conversations I’ve had with the Trump campaign, anybody, they’re not seeing it,' she added.