A woman who made locals in her area so angry she appeared on a TV show about nightmare neighbours is facing legal action.

Lillie Goddard was featured on Channel 5’s 2020 documentary My Nightmare Neighbour Next Door for the caravan and shipping container she kept as house extensions outside her home in Swindon.

Ms Goddard moved herself and her elderly mum into the caravan in July 2019.

At the time, she said the pair needed to stay there while heating and floorboard issues inside the house were fixed.

She bought a shipping container a few months later – supposedly to store construction materials – which was eventually removed last June.

But the ‘eyesore’ caravan remains along with a second mobile home the mum-of-two is suspected of renting out – without planning permission.

Neighbours say she is also renting out her £170,000 house to multiple tenants at a time.

One 77-year-old local, who has not been named, claimed: ‘A couple of people live in the caravan and a load more in the house. We’ll see people coming and going all the time, tenants change regularly.’

The woman has stuck with her construction story, insisting things have taken so long because of delays that were out of her control.

But Swindon Borough Council has gone ahead with legal action, with a court hearing set to take place on February 15.

One neighbour said: ‘It’s a disgrace, she doesn’t care about anybody else in the street except for herself.

‘I think she lives in cloud cuckoo land some days, it’s like she thinks the council will never actually do anything to deal with her.

‘She said it was to do up the house, and loads of other excuses, but she’s lived in there ever since and there’s no sign of it disappearing.

‘The place looks a mess from the outside, imagine what it looks like inside. I see people coming and going all the time, if we didn’t know about the history, we’d be quite concerned about what all these people are doing coming in and out.

‘I do worry that if the council haven’t really gone to inspect it properly, what problems they could be.’

Ms Goddard has claimed she has been the victim of racial discrimination, bullying and abuse from neighbours.

A previous court order to remove the caravans were quashed and Ms Goddard is hoping this new one will be too – for the sake of her mum.

She said: ‘Why would the council wish to force a senior to become homeless or move into a house where climbing stairs could be life-threateningly dangerous for her?

‘How will I be able to care for her in an emergency situation? She does not speak English. It is victimisation and cruel.’

The council has said: ‘We hope this will lead to the removal of the mobile home, but the decision will fall to the court.’

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.