The Bay star Nadeem Islam has opened up about a scene that was particularly emotional to film in series 3 with his on-screen brother Michael Karim, saying that he ‘cried a lot’ that day on set.

The new season of the ITV crime drama follows new lead DS Jenn Townsend (Marsha Thomason) as she supports the Rahman family in the wake of the murder of the middle son, Saif Rahman (Brahmdeo Shannon Ramana).

In the fourth episode, the funeral is held for the promising young boxer, as his mother Mariam Rahman (Rina Mahoney) and brothers Adnan (Michael) and Jamal (Nadeem) grieve their loss.

During a recent conversation with Metro.co.uk, Nadeem recalled a particular scene he filmed with Michael, which he revealed left him in tears.

In episode four, the siblings sit together over their brother’s grave, adorning it with flowers after the funeral ceremony.

In their exchange – which happens after Adnan accidentally stabs Jordan Rooney (Conor Lowson) in the previous episode – he tells his younger brother that ‘whatever happens, I love you’.

Adnan stresses using sign language that he ‘properly’ loves Jamal, although he doesn’t always ‘show it’, prompting his sibling to burst into tears before they share a heartfelt hug.

When asked whether there were any scenes on The Bay series three that were particularly emotional to film, Nadeem said: ‘Definitely – there’s a scene which I shared with Michael Karim who played my brother. It’s a special scene, I cried a lot on that day.’

‘It’s like watching the black sheep of the family and the confused outcast talking to each other, they empathise but do they really understand each other?’ he said.

Nadeem praised his co-stars Rina and Michael as ‘mind-blowingly talented actors’, saying that he was able to ‘fire up’ his emotions due to their powerful performances.

‘I was able to fire up my emotions because of their portrayal of the characters; the way they performed and the way they remembered that I’m not Nadeem, I’m Jamal who they had to neglect at times due to the distraction of their own grief,’ he explained.

‘I became Jamal because of them. After the takes, we’d check in with each other and make sure that we’re still cool. Me and Michael would fist bump, in recognition that we proudly got the scene.’

Ahead of the launch of The Bay’s third outing, Nadeem emphasised the importance of Deaf representation on screen to Metro.co.uk, saying that he felt ‘proud’ to feel like a ‘part of history’ on the ITV show.

‘We make up a large portion of the population of the UK. So for The Bay, I’m so proud to be part of that history, especially in a police drama environment,’ he said.

‘These types of storylines happen to many Deaf people too – it’s time to be realistic. Hopefully the decision by The Bay, and particularly the Casting Director Kelly Valentine Hendry, to cast a Deaf actor will encourage this industry to change for the better.’

The Bay returns next Wednesday at 9pm on ITV and is available to watch on ITV Hub.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : The Bay viewers ‘loving’ new lead Marsha Thomason as actress replaces Morven Christie series 3: ‘It’s like she’s been there for years’

MORE : The Bay series 3: Jamal actor Nadeem Islam on how he ‘used emotion’ of personal family loss to ‘tell the story truthfully’