Kate Moss’ younger sister Lottie Moss says she has checked in to rehab.

The 24-year-old model and designer shared multiple videos on TikTok on Tuesday where she revealed the news to her 22,000 followers.

One clip reads: ‘I think I took euphoria too literally u guys (sic)’, referring to the acclaimed American drama series which deals heavily with themes of drugs.

The words ‘When everyone’s glamourising droog taking but you’re literally in r3h4b’ also appear in the clip, with Lottie likely changing the words ‘drug’ and ‘rehab’ to prevent the post from being flagged and taken down by the platform.

In the video, Lottie can be seen wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the words ‘Use a condom’ as she lip-syncs to the Labrinth track Mount Everest, with the clip seemingly taken in her room at the rehab centre.

A second video uploaded by the model saw her joke about her frequent cigarette breaks at the centre, mouthing along to audio which says ‘I will be having a motherf***ing cigarette now.

‘If you’re offended by a f***ing cigarette you might as well jump off a cliff now’.

The same video saw Lottie mouthing to the audio with the words: ‘The staff at r3h4b when I go outside the 10000th time to $mok3 (smoke)’ in the background.

Lottie’s videos have been flooded with messages from well-wishers, with one person writing ‘sober queen we love to see it’ and another saying ‘hoping you have a healthy recovery’.

‘I’ve been there & know how difficult it is, sending love & wishing you the best, (Sic)’ another said.

However not all the comments were positive, with one person accusing Lottie of ‘not putting in the work needed’ to recover if she was making videos on TikTok.

To which Lottie hit back: ‘Everyone’s recovery is different – have a sense of humour’.

Responding to one fan who asked how she was able to get cigarettes in the centre, Lottie explained she ‘brought a brick in’ from outside before checking in.

She also clarified that she was not in The Priory, a rehab centre attended by multiple celebrities over the years, telling a fan it was ‘not that place’.

This year has proven tough for Lottie: in January, the model was left in tears after a former friend leaked her phone number and allegedly encouraged people to share her OnlyFans photographs online.

Lottie’s journey to recovery comes almost 20 years after her supermodel sister Kate checked in to rehab after facing allegations of drug use.

Kate, 48, is now understood to be living a completely sober life free from alcohol and narcotics.

Metro.co.uk has reached out to reps for Lottie for comment.

MORE : Kate Moss’ sister Lottie weeps after ‘evil’ pal leaked phone number and OnlyFans pics online

MORE : Kate Moss beams with pride watching daughter Lila Grace follow in her footsteps on the catwalk