Lyon president Jean-Michel Aulas has confirmed the French club will try to sign Arsenal contract rebel Alexandre Lacazette on a free transfer this summer.

The French striker – who will be a key part of the Gunners’ team until the end of the season following Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s exit – is now in the final five months of his deal with the Gunners and can speak to clubs outside England about a pre-contract agreement.

Lacazette joined Arsenal in a £47million deal from Lyon back in 2017 and Aulas says the club have remained in contact with their former skipper.

The French side are prepared to offer Lacazette a long-term deal and see him as a more realistic signing than Real Madrid’s Karim Benzema, another ex-striker they are considering a move for.

Speaking at the unveiling of new loan signing Tanguy Ndombele from Spurs, Aulas said: ‘It’s Lacazette, he interests us because he marked this club.

‘It’s a profile that interests us and we have always been in contact with him.

‘This is part of the guiding ideas brought by (new sporting director) Bruno Cheyrou. In our context, yes he (Lacazette) is more accessible than Benzema.

‘We have to try to see if we can do it as a free player but we will not be alone.’

Lacazette is widely expected to leave the Emirates this summer, though there had been suggestions Arsenal could offer him either a one-year or two-year contract extension.

After being on the fringes of the first team for a long time under Mikel Arteta, the 30-year-old has become a mainstay in the starting XI following Aubameyang’s banishment at the start of December and has even inherited the captain’s armband.

Should Lacazette leave Arsenal, Arteta could be facing a crisis in attack with Eddie Nketiah also set to leave on a free transfer when his contract expires, leaving the Gunners in need of at least two new forwards in the summer.

MORE : ‘There was a chance there’ – Ian Wright believes Eddie Nketiah may have blown golden opportunity with Arsenal

MORE : William Saliba will walk into Arsenal’s team and is already up there with Thiago Silva, says Montpellier striker Stephy Mavididi

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.