Sony’s legendary driving simulator returns after almost a decade away, but can it still compete with Xbox’s Forza series?

When console manufacturers are planning out their first party offerings there are certain types of games they all make sure to include in their schedules. One of those is inevitably driving games. Nintendo has Mario Kart, Microsoft has Forza Motorsport and Horizon, and Sony has Gran Turismo – the real driving simulator.

Or at least they used to. The last full instalment, Gran Turismo 6 was released nine years ago for PlayStation 3, with the entire last generation only getting GT Sport, which while highly competent was far from a full episode. Gran Turismo 7 has a great deal riding on it, and given that it’s a double-generational leap, expectations have rarely been higher for any game.

As if that wasn’t enough, this year is also the franchise’s 25th anniversary, and a time when cars, or at least those powered by petrol or diesel, are starting to look gravely out of step with the world’s renewed focus on reducing pollution and reclaiming space for pedestrians and cyclists. The game’s first job, then, is to rekindle a love for car culture.

It goes about that in a number of ways, most prominently with the Gran Turismo Café. Accessed from the world map, which makes a return in this outing, the café is designed to deepen players’ knowledge and love of the automobile. Its 30 quests, centred around a range of classic cars, not only help fill your garage but also give you an introduction to automotive history, with notes from car designers and details of their creations.

That emphasis on storytelling carries through to Brand Central, where you can buy more than 300 car models from 50+ worldwide manufacturers. Each brand has not only its own showroom, they also all have a virtual museum that takes you through their origins, history, and design ethos. It’s a level of detail that certainly won’t be for everyone but is included specifically to seed a love for the cars themselves.

A lot has changed in the games industry in the last nine years and in terms of driving games that’s included the rise in prominence of the Forza franchise. The Forza Motorsport games were originally created as direct competitors to Gran Turismo but recently they’ve fallen by the wayside, replaced in popularity by the more arcade style Forza Horizon. If and when Forza Motorsport will return is unclear, but its fortunes suggest there may be less interest in the sort of exacting simulation that Gran Turismo was once famed for.

Forza Horizon lets you rewind time if you make a mistake, drive over fields and through hedgerows, and generally do whatever the hell you like in the name of a good time, with nothing to stand in your way. By contrast, Gran Turismo wants to deliver the most accurate possible recreation of cars and driving, and even though Sony’s preview event was hands-off it’s hard not to be impressed by what they had to show.

Gran Turismo 7 is nothing if not utterly fastidious in every single respect. Its car physics takes into account weight distribution, air resistance, the effect of wind direction, the driver’s mass and position, as well as front and rear body height. When you customise your car its class rating is no longer a simple ratio of power to weight to tyre grip. The game now runs a full simulation of the car on a track to derive a precise figure for its performance, all done in real time in the background, while you tinker with slotted disk breaks and limited slip differentials.

The sound – or ‘3rd order ambisonics’ to give it its hilariously nerdy full title – takes into account not just the noise made by engines, wind, and tyres bumping over kerbstones, but also the way those audio cues are blocked or reflected by fences, tunnels, barriers, and other cars. The 3D audio recreates the positioning and texture of sounds, affected by speed, material absorption, weather, and your listening position inside the car.

The DualSense’s haptic feedback is also used to add vibrations as road surface changes. You’ll be able to feel front tyres slip, the transition between gravel and tarmac, the resonance of your car’s bodywork, and the stuttering grip and release as ABS kicks-in. The game wants you to feel, as well as see and hear, your car without needing to buy a steering wheel peripheral.

Even the weather is fully simulated, with temperatures, humidity and air pressure set by region, causing cloud formations and weather conditions that are just as fanatically accurate as the cars that drive through them. At night, the position of the stars, and the planets of our solar system are accurately modelled, along with environmental haze, or lack of it. Puddles form in-track indentations, and when the rain stops, surfaces even dry realistically.

Gran Turismo 7’s geek credentials border on insanity, but it’s not short of the kind of features less obsessed players will also love, key amongst them the return of split-screen two-player racing. As well as a range of online modes and lobbies, you’ll also now be able to race a family member or housemate sitting right next to you, which as every gamer knows is always the best way to enjoy a victory.

There’s a massively enhanced photography mode, fully formed customisation with more than 60 performance parts for each car, and a vast range of livery options from paint jobs to stickers to body modifications. You’ll also be able to share your work with other players and download their artistic efforts in the game’s biggest move yet towards social sharing. This may have been a decade in the making, but Polyphony Digital has apparently used every minute of that time.

For PlayStation 5-owning petrolheads this is clearly an essential purchase, but it may be a harder sell for dabblers. Sony has been careful to stress how welcoming it’ll be for newcomers and less obsessive racing fans, but its quasi-religious fervour for motoring might still prove off-putting for those just in the mood for burning a bit of rubber, and who might not be as interested in digital car museums, cloud modelling, or 3rd order ambisonics.

Email gamecentral@metro.co.uk, leave a comment below, and follow us on Twitter.

MORE : Gran Turismo 7 dedicated State of Play announced amongst delay rumours

MORE : Gran Turismo 7 boasts over 420 cars and 90+ tracks – more than GT Sport

MORE : Gran Turismo 7 releases March 2022 for PS5 & PS4 – seems to be online only

Follow Metro Gaming on Twitter and email us at gamecentral@metro.co.uk

For more stories like this, check our Gaming page.