Mika is set to host the Eurovision Song Contest 2022 and we could not be more here for it.

The Grace Kelly hitmaker will be joined by Italian artist Laura Pausini and Alessandro Cattelan, with the trio hosting the semi-finals and the grand final, which will air on May 10 and May 14.

The news was announced during Italy’s Sanremo Music Festival, when all three presenters took to the stage together.

Mika said of the invitation to host: ‘More than ever I believe in the importance of an international community, in our common values.

‘I believe in the union of people, in breaking down the walls to celebrate our similarities as much as our differences. We can do it thanks to music, which is the most universal form of expression. Eurovision is this and so much more!

‘I’ve been watching it since I was a kid, the whole family would get together for the Grand Final. Once a year, more than 40 countries share the same emotions, regardless of history or the political situation: music unites them. It’s an exciting honour to be one of the masters of ceremony on these fantastic nights.’

This year’s song contest is set to take place in Turin, Italy after Maneskin swept up at the competition last year before skyrocketing to popularity.

Fronted by Damiano David, Maneskin have become one of the most popular Eurovision contestants in recent years, with their success extending beyond the competition and turning the band into bonafide rockers.

Here’s hoping that the UK will fare a little better this year after two last-place entries in a row.

No UK act has made the top 10 since 2009, when Jade Ewen came fifth with a little help from Lord Andrew Lloyd Webber with It’s My Time.

It has been announced that TaP Music, the the global music publishing and management company behind Dua Lipa, Lana Del Rey, Dermot Kennedy and Ellie Goulding, will select the song and act that will represent the UK in Turin next May.

The Eurovision grand final will take place on May 10.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Eurovision 2022: Could Brooke Scullion be Ireland’s most promising hopeful in years? ‘I know how massive this could be’

MORE : The Rasmus on Eurovision, new members and the ‘unique’ magic of In The Shadows