Legislation that would force employers to pay workers they fired for refusing to get vaccinated against the coronavirus has cleared a hurdle in the US.

The Employees Compensation Bill, or HB 2198, passed in Arizona’s House Commerce committee on Tuesday and will go before the full House floor in the weeks to come.

If it becomes a law, Arizona employers would be required to provide a fired worker’s annual salary in one lump sum or in installments over a year. Alternatively, employers could rehire the workers for the same or similar position.

The bill essentially protects workers who refused to get vaccinated under any exemption, including religious, medical and other qualifying conditions.

‘Exemptions and accommodations were supposed to be made according to the Civil Rights Act and Arizona’s own attorney general, so it is very disappointing businesses are ignoring individual rights of people and employees, and terminating as a small business owner, I wouldn’t do that. So, it is disheartening,’ Arizona State Rep Steve Kaiser said, according to .

‘We need the government to protect these people.’

Arizona’s Republican Governor Doug Ducey signed an executive order in December barring state and local governments from implementing their own Covid-19 vaccine mandates. It did not cover prohibiting health organizations from requiring the vaccine for workers.

‘No person shall be required by this state, or any city, town or county to obtain a Covid-19 vaccine,’ the order read.

Arizona Chamber of Commerce Courtney Coolidge said that private businesses should have control over their own coronavirus workplace rules.

‘Arizona is an at-will state. Private businesses have the right to set policies for the workplace,’ she told Fox 10. ‘Workplace environments, as you know, vary significantly and private businesses are in the best position to implement policy that best serve needs of employees and operations.’

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.