Little Mix’s Leigh-Anne Pinnock has signed a record deal with Warner Records, as she prepares to kick off her solo career.

After the girl group announced their break, plenty are expecting the girls to continue their domination with solo projects, with Perrie already seen heading back to the studio.

It seems Leigh-Anne is also on her solo journey, with Warner Records tweeting: ‘Delighted to welcome Leigh-Anne Pinnock to the Warner Records family!’

A source told The Sun: ‘A number of labels were keen to bag Leigh-Anne but Warner seemed the best fit.

‘She’s already been in the studio working on tracks for months.

‘Leigh-Anne unequivocally loves Little Mix and always will, but the truth is she’s been ready to branch out on her own for some time.’

The singer has already been smashing it, following her first acting role in Christmas rom-com Boxing Day, and we’re so ready to see her thrive even more.

Little Mix are due to take a break after their Confetti tour, but promised that the girl group will be ‘forever.’

A message on their official Instagram page read: ‘We wanted to let you all know that after the Confetti tour in April/May next year we are going to be taking a break from Little Mix.

‘It’s been 10 amazing years, a wonderful non-stop adventure, and we feel the time is right to take a break so we can recharge and work on some other projects.

‘We can’t thank you enough for your love and never-ending support since the beginning. We love you all SO much.’

In 2020, Jesy Nelson left the group after nine years, with the star later releasing her solo single Boyz.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Leigh-Anne Pinnock basks in winter sun on luxury Jamaica holiday

MORE : Little Mix’s Leigh-Anne Pinnock tipped to beat Marcus Rashford to diversity award as stars lead powerful battle to tackle racism and equality