Chelsea are set to rival Liverpool for Fulham starlet Fabio Carvalho this summer after the Merseysiders failed to wrap up a deadline day deal for the youngster, according to reports.

The 19-year-old had agreed personal terms with the Reds and even completed a medical, though the paperwork was not submitted before Monday’s 11pm deadline despite the two clubs agreeing a fee.

Liverpool remain confident of signing Carvalho, however they will no longer have a free run at the teenager who is out of contract in the summer.

Now, rather than having to agree a fee with Fulham all over again, Liverpool will be able to negotiate directly with Carvalho in the summer, with a tribunal taking place at a later date to determine a fair price.

However, Goal report that there are other clubs now looking at Carvalho, with the most notable being Chelsea.

The west Londoners – who have an advantage in terms of the attacker not needing to uproot his family – are weighing up their own move, though they will have to make up ground on Liverpool.

Carvalho is thought to be excited by the prospect of working under Jurgen Klopp and a clear pathway to the first team has been outlined to him by Liverpool.

He will also have seen another Fulham youngster, Harvey Elliott, make rapid progress in his development at Anfield, enjoying a stellar loan with Blackburn before earning a spot in Liverpool’s first team this season prior to getting injured.

Chelsea are not the only club who will rival Liverpool, with Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund also interested – in the case of the two German clubs, they would only have to pay a nominal compensation fee as he would be moving overseas.

Liverpool are believed to have agreed an £8million fee with Fulham and a tribunal could decide that Carvalho is worth more than that.

There have been suggestions that Liverpool will try and restructure the deal over the coming weeks to tie Carvalho down, though he may feel he can earn more in the summer particularly if he joins a foreign club who will not need to pay a significant compensation fee.

MORE : Why Liverpool’s transfer deadline day move for Fabio Carvalho collapsed

For more stories like this, check our sport page.

Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.