Furious Sadiq Khan says he’s put Metropolitan Police boss Dame Cressida Dick ‘on notice’ after sexist, ableist and homophobic messages sent by her officers were exposed.

The London mayor told the Commissioner ‘the return to the bad days of the Met of his childhood’ was unacceptable.

Londoners will ‘not put up with this’, he asserted in a phone call that lasted an hour-and-a-half.

The Queen appoints the Met Police commissioner based on a recommendation from the home secretary. However, the opinions of London’s mayor are considered as part of the process.

A spokesperson for Mr Khan said tonight: ‘The Mayor and the Commissioner had a very frank discussion which lasted for well over 90 minutes.

‘The Mayor made clear to the Commissioner how angry he is with a return to the bad days of the Met of his childhood in the 1970s and 80s, and that neither he nor Londoners will put up with this.

‘He has put the Commissioner on notice. He said the Met needs to urgently show it has an effective plan for restoring the trust and confidence of Londoners in the police and to drive out the culture of racism, homophobia, bullying and misogyny which clearly still exists within its ranks.’

It follows a series of nine investigations by the Independent Office for Police Conduct into officers based in a now-disbanded Westminster team between 2016 and 2018.

One probe uncovered a number of offensive messages exchanged between officers over WhatsaApp and Facebook, as well as a culture of bullying and harassment.

In one exchange, cops made rape jokes and multiple references to sexual violence saying ‘I would happily rape you’ and ‘if I was single I would happily chloroform you’.

Fourteen officers were investigated by the watchdog, of whom two were found to have a case to answer for gross misconduct.

One was sacked and another resigned before he would have been dismissed.

Nine remain serving officers, while another is working as a contractor in a staff role.

IOPC regional director for London Sal Naseem said that the two accused of gross misconduct were the worst perpetrators, but could not confirm whether those still serving were responsible for any of the offensive comments published.

A source close to Mr Khan added: ‘If the commissioner is not able to do so, then the mayor will have to consider whether she is the right person to lead the change needed at the Met.’

Home Secretary Priti Patel told the Commons Home Affairs Committee on Wednesday that the messages indicated a ‘failure of leadership’.

She insisted she was still ‘confident’ in Dame Cressida but admitted ‘change is required’.

Asked by committee chairwoman Dame Diana Johnson if she thinks police forces are ‘institutionally misogynistic’, Ms Patel said: ‘There are problems with the culture, and some aspects of the culture, within the Metropolitan Police.

‘I do think there are some very, very serious and significant matters that need, not just following up, but further investigation.

‘We have seen now too, too many times, too many instances where, in policing, we just see the most appalling behaviours, the most appalling conduct,” she added. I also think it shows a failure of leadership in some quarters.’

The Met has declined to comment on Mr Khan’s statement.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.