The first series of BBC crime drama The Responder is coming to an end with the thrilling finale set to air on Wednesday night.

The Responder has proved hugely popular with the public since the first episodes aired last month, leading many fans to speculate – or at least hope – that there will be a series two.

Leading the cast is Martin Freeman as Liverpool response officer Chris Carson, alongside Adelayo Adedayo as young recruit Rachel, Warren Brown as former colleague Raymond and MyAnna Buring as Chris’ wife Kate.

The Responder is written by former Merseyside police officer Tony Schumacher, who caught the attention of the BBC after landing a spot in a TV writers’ bursary scheme.

Writer Tony has admitted his former role as a police officer heavily influenced his series, and he has been vocal on social media in thanking viewers for their reaction to the show so far.

But with The Responder’s first series coming to an end with the fifth and final episode tonight, can we look forward to series two?

Will there be a series two of The Responder?

The reaction to the first series of The Responder has been overwhelmingly positive, with both the public and critics showering praise on the show.

While showrunner Tony Schumacher has written a series of thriller novels, The Responder is separate, meaning we can’t know for sure if there will be a series two just yet as it’s not based on any prior projects.

The BBC have yet to confirm whether The Responder will have a second series or if it will be a stand-alone show, but Tony recently revealed he wants the show to go on.

Taking to Twitter on Tuesday, the author responded to a fan’s message saying she is ‘hoping there is a 2nd series (Sic)’ by saying: ‘So am I!’

And on Wednesday, hours before the airing of the final episode, another fan told him: ‘Get series two written! No slacking!’

Plus, The Responder star Warren Brown told RadioTimes.com that there are ‘murmurs’ of a series two.

Speaking on the phenomenal reaction to the show, he said: ‘More and more now, when an audience reaction has been great for a show, there’s definite scope to do more.

‘So there are murmurs [of season two], but nothing set in stone.’

The Responder concludes tonight on BBC One and BBC iPlayer at 9.00pm.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : The Responder: Viewers applaud Martin Freeman’s ‘flawless’ scouse accent as Stephen Graham comparisons flood in

MORE : The Responder review: Martin Freeman’s inspired cop drama is a career highlight