A Miss England beauty queen was in hospital for two days after being stung by a dangerous jellyfish while on holiday in Mauritius.

Pratistha Raut, 28, says she couldn’t ‘ walk or sit properly’ following the scary incident last Friday.

She is believed to have been stung by a Box jellyfish – which have some of the most deadly venom in the world that has the potential to cause paralysis, cardiac arrest and even death.

The model won a trip to the East African island for raising £100,000 for charity during the 2019 Miss England competition.

The holiday was delayed because of the pandemic but she was finally able to enjoy it this month along with five others – including the current reigning Miss England Rehema Muthamia, 25, and former winner Dr Bhasha Mukherjee, 26.

Pratistha was enjoying some water sports on the last day of the break when she decided to swim back to the beach, rather than go in a boat.

Her leg brushed past something, which she ‘thought was seaweed’ until it started to ‘sting in agony’.

Pratistha assumed the pain must have been from the saltwater irritating blisters and bites.

But by the time she got back to her hotel room, ‘it felt like someone poured hot boiling water on [her] body and the skin started to melt’.

She said: ‘I looked down to see the area that was hurting and, to my surprise, I had a rash all on my legs and bottom.

‘In a matter of minutes it started to spread. I went to the hotel medical team who were so amazing with their quick response.’

Staff helped Pratistha get changed and put her into a taxi to take her to hospital – where she was given medicine to ease the pain and to stop the spread of the reaction.

‘The pain from the sting was unbearable, I couldn’t walk or sit properly,’ Pratistha said.

Doctors did not know how Pratistha would react so they decided to keep her overnight to observe.

Fortunately, the sting improved and she is now in good health – but being kept in hospital meant she missed her flight and could only return to the UK two days later than planned.

The beauty queen, from Hounslow, West London, said she felt supported by Miss England chaperone Kelly Levell and hotel staff who ‘even delivered [her] a dinner to the hospital’.

Kelly said: ‘I was in total shock when the photo of Trish came through on our Mauritius 2022 group chat.

‘Her skin had blistered severely and at the time I was about to take a shower after packing my luggage as we were leaving for the airport in one hour’s time. I feel so sorry for Trish, she was very brave and didn’t even cry.’

Box jellyfish can grow up to 10ft long and they have venom which contains toxins that attack the heart, nervous system, and skin cells.

They are mainly found in the coastal waters off Northern Australia and throughout the Indo-Pacific and can live up to a year in the wild.

Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.

For more stories like this, check our news page.