Lemon became the first contestant to bow out of Drag Race UK vs The World on Tuesday night and had an expert response to those sending in hate to herself and other queens.

After the latest Drag Race franchise kicked off with an episode full of sass and shade, it was time for one queen to wave goodbye.

Lemon – who became a fan favourite on Canada’s Drag Race – was told to sashay away in a shock exit.

After the top two queens performed a lip-sync which gave them the chance to keep one in the competition, Pangina Heals beat Jimbo and chose to get eliminate Lemon over Janey Jacké.

Speaking of the reception since episode one, Lemon admitted most of her messages from fans have been supportive – but that not all her fellow queens have the same experience.

Chatting to Metro.co.uk and other press, Lemon said of receiving hate mail herself: ’I think it’s really funny – that’s not a good thing to say – but I will say I’m very, very lucky.’

She went on to note how aware she is that race is a factor when it comes to what she gets sent into her DMs.

Pangina has called out the ‘racist remarks and death threats’ she’d received over her decision.

Lemon continued: ‘I’m also a white person and this fan base treats white people incredibly different.

‘I know that has a huge say on how my DMs looked and the things people say to me, so I’m very lucky that that that doesn’t affect me in that way.’

After choosing for Lemon to be sent home, Pangina revealed that she received threats on social media, with several fans unhappy by the final result.

On Wednesday, she wrote on Twitter: ‘Okay now it’s racist remarks and death threats…

‘Please be kind to other humans. You may not agree with my decision and I can respect that BUT violence or threats are not okay.’

The eliminated queen also dished out the perfect response to those who do send in hate.

Lemon shared: ‘I just think it’s really funny when people send me hate mail, because I’m like, “Oh, yeah, when you were on your international television, is that how you did it?”

‘To me, you do not know anything about Drag Race until you’ve done Drag Race, you don’t know anything about drag until you’ve done drag. That’s just true.

‘I don’t know a single person who has gotten into drag for the first time and not said, Oh, my God, this is so much more work than I thought.

After the result was given, she told viewers: ‘I’m pretty crushed. I feel very, very heartbroken. I’m proud of what I did and I’m proud of what I put forward.

‘I don’t think Pangina made the right choice but hopefully, Jimbo will bring back that crown [to Canada]. I couldn’t take over the world here but, I’ll take over the world somewhere else.’

But she wasn’t sour after her exit, writing in the werkroom mirror: ‘Love you all. Not a bitter Lemon. See you on tour. XoXo, Lemon.’

Drag Race UK vs The World airs on Tuesdays at 9pm on BBC Three and BBC iPlayer.

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Duncan James reveals Blue’s mainly female fanbase made it harder for him to have ‘courage’ to come out

MORE : RuPaul’s Drag Race’s Kerri Colby spills on how she secured Jennifer Lopez’s actual iconic Versace dress for the runway