During an interview with popular syndicated broadcaster Stew Peters on “The Stew Peters Show,” Texas Republican gubernatorial candidate Lt. Col. Allen West explained how Texas Governor Greg Abbott has failed the citizens of Texas.

Texas Republican gubernatorial candidate Lt. Col. Allen West, who is running to unseat Texas Governor Greg Abbott, recently made an appearance on “The Stew Peters Show” with popular syndicated broadcaster Stew Peters.

During the interview, Peters slammed Abbott for imposing tyrannical COVID-19 policies such as lockdowns, mask mandates, and business closures during the pandemic.

“You know, we cannot be ruled by orders, edicts, mandates, and decrees, and I think that’s something that Governor Abbott doesn’t understand,” West told Peters. “People here in Texas are suffering.”

West also explained that he would not allow for people to be forced to take the COVID-19 vaccine, and allow citizens of the state to have access to alternative treatments such as Ivermectin.

According to West, who is currently leading Abbott in the governor’s race, Abbott has not done enough to secure the US-Mexico border, allowing illegal aliens to pass through and enter the country. Due to Abbot’s apparent incompetence – drug trafficking, human trafficking, child trafficking, and sex trafficking have flourished, costing America “hundreds of thousands of lives.”

“You talk to folks down in Kinney County, Val Verde County; they’re afraid every night because of the people that are pouring across, going across their ranches, ruining their land, killing their livestock – we got to put an end to this,” West continued.

West vowed to put an end to the Biden-Abbott border crisis when he is elected Governor of Texas by giving support to law enforcement and the Texas National Guard.

“We’re going to empower our constitutional law enforcement officers, which are our sheriffs, and also the Texas National Guard,” West said. “We’re going to give them the right mission, task or purpose – and also the rules of engagement and equipment needed to do what they’re supposed to do, secure our border, and not just sit down there and be bystanders.”

“People have to realize, Colonel West, if Texas falls, it’s over!” Stew told West. “And it will fall if Governor Greg Abbott somehow cheats or whatever they’re going to do to try and pull off this election.”

Abbott was recently booed at former President Trump’s Save America Rally in Texas on January 29, so he responded by repeatedly yelling “Donald J. Trump” at the massive crowd, National File previously reported.

“Are you ready for Donald J. Trump? Donald J. Trump is ready for you. Donald J. Trump loves the great state of Texas and Texans love President Donald J. Trump. He is getting ready to come out here and he wants to see you show your support for our president, Donald J. Trump,” Governor Abbott repeated to the crowd.

National File is committed to ensuring your voice can and will be heard. To keep your speech free, we are switching our commenting platform to Insticator. Don’t worry! All you have to do is create a commenting account with Insticator. We will be transferring previous comments to our new site, and then you will be able to link your past comments to your new Insticator account. If you have any feedback or questions about your Insticator commenting account, please email them at: [email protected]