Josh Hawley is Going to Have to Prove He’s Not Just a Hoax

I’m happy that he’s going to challenge the Senate regarding this election fraud, but Missouri Senator Josh Hawley is going to have to prove himself to me.

I am less than swayed by his presentation, which seems more than a little bit carefully curated and synthetically manufactured.

Obviously, I agree with what he is saying and doing, but this “meteoric rise” business is always very suspicious.

The Washington Post has a big piece up about him presently, discussing the way he appears to be aiming to change the goals of the Republican Party:

Earlier Wednesday, Hawley opened a new front in his war with the Republican establishment — vowing to embrace Trump’s efforts to question the election result by lodging a challenge during Congress’s Jan. 6 electoral college tally. The effort, done against the wishes of McConnell and other party honchos, will not change the outcome of the election, but it has solidified his embrace of Trump and heightened questions about how far Hawley would go to advance his presidential ambitions. Rep. Paul Mitchell (Mich.), who left the Republican Party this month just weeks before retiring from the House in protest of Trump’s baseless efforts to contest the election, tweeted that Hawley “is just getting in the queue early” for the 2024 presidential race. Yet the checks — and the surprising Republican support for boosting them further — mark a signal legislative victory in Hawley’s first Senate term. Whether it heralds a broader GOP shift toward a populist approach more in line with the increasingly working-class nature of the party’s electorate is unknown. But that is a shift Hawley is eager to accelerate — not only by backing hundreds of billions of dollars in stimulus checks, but by taking Trump’s loose platform of restricting immigration, attacking free trade and cracking down on big tech companies and developing it into what Hawley calls a “worker-focused approach” to Republican policymaking. “There’s a lot of work to be done there building that out,” he said in an interview last week. “It needs to carry over into lots of other areas of social and economic policy. But I just think that the current crisis crystallizes it because the working folks in this country, working families, have borne so much of the economic pain of this downturn.” Hawley’s efforts have captured attention across the political spectrum, including by many on the left who are watching his emerging populist agenda with at least some degree of intrigue, if not outright admiration. “There’s some real rethinking going on on the right, and he’s at the center of it,” said Matt Stoller, research director at the American Economic Liberties Project and a leftist scholar of populist political movements. “This is a conservative Republican who just happens to be a populist and does not like libertarians, and, philosophically, that brings him a lot closer to Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren in his approach to corporate power. And that is a real threat to the Democratic Party and the left wing.” Besides stimulus checks, Hawley has called on the United States to withdraw from the World Trade Organization. He has proposed, with Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), taxing foreign purchasers of U.S. securities to combat currency manipulation. He joined with other Republican senators to suspend guest worker visas at the height of the pandemic, citing mass unemployment. And he has taken special aim at the growing power of massive tech platforms. Hawley said in a statement Wednesday that his electoral college challenge is in part meant to highlight “the unprecedented effort of mega corporations, including Facebook and Twitter, to interfere in this election, in support of Joe Biden.” He offered no evidence for his claim, an extension of years blasting big tech’s handling of conservative viewpoints, dating back to his two-year stint as state attorney general. Even if there are limits to his populism — he backed the Trump tax cuts, which largely benefited the wealthy, and supported an anti-union “right to work” law in Missouri — his policy portfolio represents a repudiation of the traditional free-market Republican doctrine espoused by the likes of former House speaker Paul D. Ryan (Wis.), let alone the more aggressive libertarianism of Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.). That has made him a suspect figure among more orthodox conservatives, especially Trump critics. Hawley also has fierce critics on the left. A July 2019 speech in which he declared war against a “cosmopolitan consensus” favoring educated elites over ordinary Americans prompted several commentators to accuse him of being chauvinistic and even anti-Semitic. (Hawley’s retort: “The liberal language police have lost their minds.”)

Let’s be real: you can’t talk about a “cosmopolitan consensus” without being at least a little bit anti-Semitic.

That isn’t the fault of anyone but the Jews.

Being anti-immigration is obviously pro-populist in the minds of everyone who isn’t a supporter of this new extremely internationalist and third-worldist version of communism, which claims that a homeless heroin addict in America is oppressing African hut dwellers simply by having been born white.

At this point, anyone who doesn’t have a dog in the fight understands that this version of communism was manufactured by the global elites for the purpose of displacing the white working class in the first world with brown people who are seen as preferable slaves by the ruling class.

Needless to say, Mehdi Hasan has a dog in this fight.

It continues to shock to see these brown people come out and claim that the working class of America owes something to the third world, as they are struggling to survive.

But they just keep coming out with it and white women keep eating it up.

I wish these people would just go back to their countries and leave us alone.

But the push for stimulus checks drew the harshest criticism from the right. On Dec. 18, Hawley went to the Senate floor to press for a bill providing for $1,200 checks, forcing a colleague to block him from passing it by unanimous consent. What ensued was a clash of the competing strains of contemporary Republican thought. Hawley preached unadulterated American populism: “If we are going to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on bailing out this, that and the other, surely — surely — we could start with reasonable, modest relief to the working people in need in this nation.” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), a product of the tea party revolution — a plastics manufacturer who rode discontent with federal spending and regulation to election in 2010 — countered: “We all have compassion. We all want to fulfill those needs. We just don’t talk in numbers very often,” he said, before objecting to Hawley’s bill. “We are mortgaging our children’s future, and I think we need to be very careful about mortgaging it further.”

I’m so sick of hearing that shit.

The future was sold out a long time ago – and the Democrats are going to keep selling it out, regardless if Republicans allow their own supporters to die in the streets.

There isn’t going to be any future at all if we do not fight, and refusing to fight, instead claiming that the government shouldn’t exist at all, is total cowardice and actually inane.

In the end, Hawley and Sanders won out: The checks — worth an estimated $166 billion — made the cut. Sam Hammond, director of poverty and welfare policy at the center-right Niskanen Center and a former aide to Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, said Hawley’s success could hearken the possible return of the “New Deal Republicanism” that went out with Richard M. Nixon. Hawley’s facility with the grievance politics of the right, he said, has given him a special ability to appeal to a Republican base that, under Trump, appears to be growing less affluent, more diverse and certainly less interested in the dogma of Milton Friedman and Ludwig von Mises. “You can use the cultural animus foil to hide a lot of plutocratic policy,” said Hammond, who has advised Hawley’s office. “But . . . it leaves you vulnerable to someone like Hawley who comes along and talks the talk just as well about the cultural elites and big tech, who stokes the culture war flames just as well but then channels that energy some other place.”

So, I’m reasonably hopeful about Hawley.

What he’s doing is good, sure.

You have to like what he’s saying.

But something about it feels as unnatural as Hawley himself often looks (he looks a lot like an android).

We shall see.

Probably, this is all a gigantic scam to keep people interested in politics, when in fact electoral politics in America will end on January 20 if Joe Biden is inaugurated.

Anyone who tells you that you’re going to win a presidential election in 2024 after the 2020 election was stolen – and everyone knew about it, and saw it happen – is lying to you.

You’re going to know how real Josh Hawley is by how he deals with the election fraud. If he tells you to just keep voting anyway, then he is frankly useless.

David Duke could become the number one Republican politician and it would mean nothing if he was supporting the “vote for change” hoax in the wake of this election theft.

Voting cannot be considered a valid avenue for change after the 2020 election, and we need politicians that will say that. Nothing else matters.