It’s Episode Twenty-Three of MRC’s newest video series, CensorTrack with TR. This week we talked about how when Big Tech censors the speech of prominent figures, they’re censoring you, too.

Big Tech is controlled by the left which causes a clear bias when determining what information is and is not allowed to remain online. Big Tech has shown intense dedication to silencing any right-leaning or free speech-promoting content on their social media sites. Prominent figures, especially conservatives and free thinkers like nationally syndicated radio host Dan Bongino, podcast host Joe Rogan Fox News host Tucker Carlson, political commentator Matt Walsh and comedian Steven Crowder, are main targets of censorship.

Fox News host Dan Bongino has been on the censorship chopping block as of late for his unashamed support of free speech. A few weeks ago, YouTube suspended him, and now, the platform has permanently removed his account. Google has also censored ads for Bongino’s website, and Twitter suppressed search results for Bongino’s account on its platform.

Rogan has been spotlighted by cancel vultures. His podcast, “The Joe Rogan Experience,” regularly features interviews with people across a wide range of opinions and ideologies. Spotify currently exclusively hosts Rogan’s podcast on its platform, but several low-list musicians and biased news “reporters” have called for Spotify to remove Rogan’s content. Spotify has not.

Social media companies have censored right-leaning commentators, including Carlson, Walsh, Crowder and none other than former President Donald Trump. Platforms censored Trump over 625 times before he received permanent bans from his social media accounts.

The bottomline is: When Big Tech shuts down the voices of figures who are not afraid to challenge leftist ideology and proclaim free speech, their audience is impacted. The more often that leading voices are shut down, the harder it is for regular users like you and me to hear their voice or have a voice for ourselves.

Watch below for the twenty-third episode of CensorTrack with TR! We encourage you to post and share it across all social media. If you have been censored, contact us at www.CensorTrack.org, and use #FreeSpeech to point out more of Big Tech’s unacceptable bias.
• Big Tech Is NOT Smarter Than Scientists

Conservatives are under attack. If you have been censored, contact us at the Media Research Center contact form, and help us hold Big Tech accountable.