For how progressive diminutive “Game of Thrones” actor Peter Dinklage thinks he is, his social justice sentiments are now blocking an actual minority community from their “dream jobs.”

Dinklage is now getting called out by Hollywood’s dwarf acting community for essentially ruining their chances at starring in Disney's upcoming live-action remake of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs."

During a recent podcast the dwarf actor who plays "Tyrion" on HBO’s medieval fantasy series complained about how “backward” it is that Disney is still using dwarf actors even though it claims to be pro-social justice.

After all, the remake will reportedly cast a Latina woman as Snow White for the sake of diversity. How that makes sense, we don’t know. But Dinklage’s point was that, on one hand, Disney is so woke that a brown person ends up playing someone named Snow White, but is insensitive in its depiction of little people.

Though he’s not wrong about Disney’s double standards, recall how they don’t care about the Uighurs being imprisoned in the same Chinese province they filmed the live-action version of "Mulan."

Of course, Disney bending over backwards to be the wokest corporation on the planet let the opinions of Dinklage change their entire strategy for the remake.

“To avoid reinforcing stereotypes from the original animated film, we are taking a different approach with these seven characters and have been consulting with members of the dwarfism community,” Disney said in response to Dinklage’s candid thoughts from the aforementioned podcast.

The thought that Disney may rethink their dwarf scenario actually hurt the very community that Dinklage insisted on respecting with his commentary.

One famous dwarf, former pro wrestling star Dylan Postl made an appearance on "Tucker Carlson Tonight" on January 31 to say that Dinklage’s comments didn't help him or his dwarf compatriots.

“[Dinklage] wants to be progressive, and it’s all about progression and I support that completely," Postl stated, "but the issue is him being ‘progressive’ is eliminating seven potential dream jobs from the dwarf acting community.”

Wow, you mean "everything woke turns to s**t?" You don’t say!

But yes, Postl makes a great point that Dinklage was chasing the PC dragon so hard he didn't even care to think that many young dwarfs would jump at the chance to be in a multi-million dollar Hollywood project.

“These are seven roles that are few and far between for dwarfs anyway, that were made for us and that’s what’s ridiculous to me about the whole situation is it’s not being progressive,” he added.

Yes, you would think that progress would be to make it easier for disabled people, dwarfs, and other minorities to get more jobs. Dinklage and Disney are closing the door on dwarf actors in this way.

And besides, Dinklage is a very rich and privileged dwarf actor who became a star because there was a well written “Game of Thrones” role made for a dwarf. Who is he to now say that that’s “backward,” as he did?

“Who put this guy in charge and why is he the single voice, like for a whole community?” Postl asked.

Well, he’s clearly a terrible representative. Though I will ask, where was Dinklage in the 80s? Perhaps he could’ve gotten the Ewoks axed from "Return of The Jedi." That would have been good.