In a viral clip swarming the internet, a man posted videos that referenced celebrity clothing lines from the early to late 2000's. The video has 214,000 views and over 24,000 likes.

In recent data showcased by Oberlo, 62 percent of people on Tiktok are ranged from ages 10-29 while just 7% percent are over the age of 50.

The viral video posted to Tiktok by user @bryanmundjr (whose real name is Bryan) reveals a a three-part series discussing forgotten celebrity clothing lines of the 2000's. Back in 2020, he made a series, but brought it back in 2022. Here are some of the many influential lines discussed in his series.

Dream Out Loud by Selena Gomez, sold at Kmart

Launched in 2010, Gomez had an eco-friendly clothing line that sold on the shelves at Kmart. She worked with designers to help create shirts, dresses, skirts, scarves, and hats. Her last collection was released in 2014.

"I wanted to create an own line that I could wear and my fans could wear and we could wear together," Gomez said in a 2012 interview with Zach Sang.

Stuff by Hilary Duff was launched in 2003 as a beauty brand that would be inexpensive to purchase and aimed at teenage girls. Later, the brand expanded its products by releasing clothes, bedding, bags, and more. The brand came to an end in 2009. Currently, Duff has a collection of eyewear with Muse.

In the summer of 2009, Walmart put out a statement announcing a collaboration with Cyrus and fashion designer Max Azria to create a fun and affordable clothing line for teens. The clothing line included rock and roll inspired shirts, dresses, jeans, and more. In a 2016 interview with Variety, the singer revealed that she lost her partnership with the company.

"I had a clothing line at Walmart and got kicked out, because they said you had to choose weed or Walmart, and you see what I did — I chose weed," she said.

Fans discussed their favorites in the comment section of the video with an overwhelming number voting for Cyrus' styles.

"That Miley Cyrus line at Walmart hit the streets hard. Everyone had that red white & blue shirt!" @Xaviera wrote.

@Bella also commented on Cyrus' clothing brand saying, "I'll never forget Miley Cyrus' line at Walmart, the way I thought i was wearing luxury.

"Miley from Walmart was everywhere!!! Too iconic. Then she got dropped after the bong video," @hilaryduff2002 added.

"Stuff by Duff lives in my head," @Blake commented.

@genZwine wrote, "Whenever I show my dad any new clothing my dad goes 'oh is that Duff Stuff?' it kills me every time."