A woman went viral on TikTok after criticizing a local promotion at Domino's Pizza that gave delivery drivers a chance to win $10,000 if they worked 60 consecutive days.

Denycia, who goes by @denyciadawn on TikTok, posted the video on January 26 and received more than 219,000 views and 3,722 comments.

"Here's a thought, maybe pay your employees living wages," the caption of the TikTok read.

In the video, Denycia said she wanted to show what Domino's in Indiana and Kentucky were up to. She then showed a screenshot of a promotion for employees that she said her Facebook friend shared online.

The flier was titled "Survivor Driver Edition" and stated that delivery drivers would have a chance to win $10,000. In the small print below, the flier explained that only one driver would have the chance to win the money.

The flier said that drivers could potentially win the money by "out working, out-hustling, & out-lasting every other driver" by working "as many consecutive days as possible, in a row, without being late or missing a shift."

The flier also stated that each shift must last at least three hours, drivers must make a minimum of six deliveries per shift, and must also work a minimum of 60 days. If several drivers are still remaining after 90 days, the $10,000 would be shared equally among them and another round would be started, the flier stated.

"Domino's Survivor, where employees have to work for a minimum of 60 days straight," Denycia said in the video.

She went on to explain that not only do employees have to work for 60 consecutive days in order to participate, they also cannot be late to a shift or miss a day.

"All for a chance to win $10,000," Denycia said.

Denycia said that the challenge was insulting to the working class and that she would not be spending any more of her money at Domino's.

While the average salary of a Domino's employee varies depending on location and position, Indeed estimates that the starting pay for a delivery driver is $15.83 an hour.

But people such as the research director of Indeed Hiring Lab, Nick Bunker, believe that wages will likely rise as more people quit their jobs over low wages.

In November alone, more than 4.5 million Americans quit their jobs, according to a report from the U.S. Department of Labor.

The industry that faced the most resignations was the hospitality industry, which includes restaurant work and other food-service jobs.

More than 3,000 users commented on Denycia's video and mentioned how the challenge felt "morbid," but others said there was no reason to get "offended" because no one was being forced to participate.

One user commented, "I feel like they took a 'Hunger Games' joke a little too literally ... "

"They're literally just trying to get their numbers up so the person in charge can get a bonus," another comment read. "Trust me."

Other users thought the contest was not a problem and that 60 three-hour shifts sounded doable.

In a followup video, Denycia provided more screenshots from various franchises' Facebook pages. She claimed that "at least 19 different locations across at least 14 different cities" were partaking in the challenge.

While Denycia pulled up screenshots from specific locations' Facebook pages, the advertisements are not still publicly available.

A spokesperson for Domino's Pizza told Newsweek that it was a local promotion by a franchisee and did not originate at the corporate offices. They also said that they believed the promotion was discontinued.

Newsweek reached out to Denycia for comment.