A New York City judge's son, who dressed as a caveman during the January 6 Capitol riot, pleaded guilty Wednesday.

Recognizable in photos from that day, Aaron Mostofsky, the son of Steven Mostosky, a state court judge in Brooklyn, was photographed wearing a fur costume and a stolen bulletproof police vest. He even acknowledged it was unfortunate he got caught in photos because "now people know me," the Associated Press reported.

More than 730 people have been charged so far with federal crimes related to January 6 riot. However, Mostosky is one of two dozen rioters that have pleaded guilty to a felony. Charges against him included civil disorder, theft of government property and entering a restricted building, according to a news release from the Department of Justice.

"Aaron Mostofsky knowingly and voluntarily admits to all the [violations,]" court documents read.

Although he faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine, the DOJ said in a news release a federal district court judge would determine his sentence under U.S. Sentencing Guidelines.

Mostofsky's legal team argued the joint session of Congress was not an "official proceeding," but the judges dismissed this argument, according to WUSA-TV.

Mostofsky took a bus from New York City to D.C., texting "D.C. bound stopthesteal," according to court documents. Explaining his outfit to a friend, he said, "even a caveman would know the election was stolen."

The FBI later found messages on Mostofsky's Facebook page where he suggested rioting after Republicans lost control of the House of Representatives during the 2018 midterm elections, according to WUSA.

Once in the West Plaza, Mostofsky intentionally joined a group of rioters, using his weight to break through a police line.

"He was not forced into the line by other rioters, and his conduct was not involuntary, an accident, or a mistake," according to a Department of Justice court filing.

The DOJ said he was approximately the 12th person to enter the Senate Wing Door. Mostofsky picked up the bulletproof vest and a U.S. Capitol Police riot shield after another rioter set them down.

Before leaving the Capitol, Motofsky gave an interview with the New York Post, saying he was there "to express my opinion as a free American that this election was stolen."

He also added, "Congress should get the courage to do their duty... to examine the fraud, and maybe delay the election."

The DOJ later used quotes from the interview in court documents.