A pet owner claimed in a now-viral post that their sister's boyfriend confronted them over their dog's name, Yankee—which the boyfriend says is "offensive" to Americans.

Posting to Reddit's "Am I The A**hole" forum on Wednesday under the username u/throwawaydogname0, the pet owner explained that neither they nor their sister is American; however, the boyfriend is an American and presumably from the South.

u/throwawaydogname0 said that their sister's boyfriend was "pretty surprised" when he learned that they named their dog Yankee—so much so that the Redditor's sister called later that night to request that they re-name the dog.

"The name Yankee had upset her boyfriend, quite badly, and he found it offensive," u/throwawaydogname0 wrote. "I basically told her to f**k off and tell him to grow up..."

The following day, the sister and her boyfriend showed up on the Redditor's doorstep to explain "why the name Yankee was so awful."

"During this discussion, he told me it was essentially a slur used against Americans, and asked if I would ever name a dog the n-word," recalled u/throwawaydogname0. "I just kind of laughed and told him he was off his nut."

So far, u/throwawaydogname0's post has received more than 13,000 upvotes and over 4,400 comments.

The meaning of the word 'Yankee' has changed throughout history, according to National Geographic.

During the Civil War, for example, Yankee was a derogatory term used by people in the South to describe those loyal to the Union. In World War I, "the term was used widely abroad to refer to all Americans."

"Sometimes, it's a negative description. Other times, it's a playful term," explained National Geographic.

In the present day, it's often used by Americans to describe New Englanders.

Interestingly enough, National Geographic also said that the word's exact origins are unknown.

"Some say a British general named James Wolfe used it first in 1758 when he was commanding some New England soldiers," the magazine reported. "Others say the word comes from the Cherokee word eankke, which means coward."

Despite the couple's strong feelings about the word, u/throwawaydogname0 still refused to change their dog's name. That being said, they wondered later if they were wrong, so they asked online commenters to weigh in.

"As a Yankee, no you are NTA [not the a**hole]. Where the heck is he from? Boston? Making it a sports thing??? It is not a 'slur.' The Yankees won the war!" exclaimed u/ollygollymolly.

"NTA—the term can be used pejoratively but it's not a slur. Originally it referred to people who lived in the northeastern part of the country; New York and New England," wrote u/shizz181.

u/TaliesinWI added: "[Y]our sister has managed to find the only American who thinks the term is offensive in any way."

"Yea. It's definitely a slur. That's why we have the entire New York Yankees baseball team. And, Yankee Candle, and Yankee Doodle," joked u/tubesweaterguru. "NTA. It's not a slur."

Newsweek reached out to u/throwawaydogname0 for additional comment.