For now, she will stay in Kyiv and do what she can. She and Polunin stockpiled a bit of gasoline: five ten-liter canisters. “If it’s not too cold, we can run the generator for an hour or two a day, to prepare food and charge our devices. After that, we can play piano by candlelight.” They have invited eight friends to move into their house if the city is under attack. “It’s easier to survive as a commune, even just to watch the kids if adults need to go out to get firewood.” Back during the revolution, Samoilenko learned first aid and how to otherwise assist trained medics. In January, she took two refresher courses, and she is thinking of signing up for civilian reserves.

Back in 2014, Ukrainians formed ad-hoc volunteer fighting battalions to help the underequipped, underprepared regular armed forces. Since then, civilian resistance units have been legalized and formalized. A law that took effect on January 1st makes such units, now known as Territorial Defense Troops, a separate part of the armed forces under the command of a specially appointed general. Today, according to Anton Holoborodko, a journalist who acts as a press spokesman for Kyiv Territorial Defense, what began as a largely self-run volunteer organization is in the process of being integrated into the Army.

Holoborodko and I met at a cafe near the Maidan, where he works out of a small office, producing his own YouTube news show. He is thirty-two, blond, with a face that appears perfectly round. “Before 2015, my only connection to the military was that my father was an officer,” Holoborodko said. He was working as a journalist, first at the Maidan, then in Crimea and the occupied east. “And then I thought, Wait, there is a mobilization drive going on. Why haven’t I signed up?” He served for fourteen months but never saw combat: his battalion stayed in the second line of defense. “I guess I was lucky, though at the time I felt cheated. When I was discharged, I thought I’d never want to have anything to do with the military again. But gradually I came to understand that our neighbor to the east—rather, their political regime—has a problematic relationship with reality and can go crazy any day. And then what am I going to do? It occurred to me that I should think about what my role should be.” In the summer of 2020, Holoborodko signed up as a civilian volunteer.

While we talked, his phone kept ringing: people who find him through social media want to find out how to sign up for Territorial Defense; journalists want to report on civilian reserves. So far, about five hundred people have signed contracts with Territorial Defense in Kyiv. The week we met, Holoborodko said he had arranged some twenty interviews with volunteers. Every Saturday, about eighty people (“That’s a lot!” Holoborodko protested, before I had a chance to say otherwise), most of them men, between the ages of eighteen and fifty-seven, gather somewhere in or just outside Kyiv for training exercises. They work on their urban- or forest-combat maneuvers, using prop guns and other equipment that they’ve bought with their own money. Holoborodko feels lucky that his girlfriend is supportive of his work. She is willing to drive him across town for exercises on Saturday mornings, whereas other volunteers’ partners have been known to complain about family money going to buy so much as a multi-tool to use in the drills.

“Everyone ought to decide who they are going to be,” Holoborodko said. “If they are going to be civilians, they should probably plan to evacuate. If they are going to be soldiers, they should probably sign up for Territorial Defense right now.” On January 22nd, Holoborodko called his parents, who live a couple of hundred miles east of Kyiv, and instructed them, “If you lose cell service and the Internet, get in the car and drive. I want to see you here within ten hours.” They agreed. Holoborodko has a few canisters of gas set aside for his girlfriend and her fifteen-year-old son to make their way to Western Ukraine, if need be. But, although he has given his parents clear instructions, he is not sure how to determine when it’s time to send his family members on their way. (He will himself remain in Kiev to fight.) “The moment when it’s time to evacuate has not been determined with certainty,” he said. “But it is known when it will be too late: when the city is being bombed from the air.”

Until then, Lena Samoilenko plans to party. “I am using all my free time to see people,” she told me. Recently, she rented a hotel room with friends; they talked until dawn, then piled into a car and drove to the Kyiv Sea, a giant man-made reservoir. “Along the way, we listened to the best music in the world.” She played a bit *of Devendra Banhart’s “Shabop Shalom” on her phone. “It’s fun, as un-warlike as it gets. We got there—it was freezing, the sea was pushing up large blocks of ice. We lit sparklers, but it was windy and my clothes nearly caught on fire. It was wonderful.” She showed me the singed cuff of her jacket, an oversized thrifted men’s black suit jacket. She also showed me, on her phone, a picture of a gold lamé dress that she really wants to buy for this period of partying.

When will it be time to stop partying, or to stop preparing and start acting? It’s often difficult to pinpoint the exact moment when a modern war has started, and it is particularly difficult to define a moment of substantive change in a country that has, in fact, been at war for eight years. “If they shut down the Internet, I’ll know,” Samoilenko said. In past conflicts, Russia has led with large cyberattacks. People mention other scenarios, such as the bombing of Kyiv, or a land invasion of the city, and then say that they are unimaginable. “On the other hand, the unimaginable has been happening for eight years,” Holoborodko said.

Toward the end of January, the Ukrainian government bore down on its stay-calm message. A think tank run by the former Defense Minister released a report stating that troops amassed by Russia near the Ukrainian border were not yet sufficient for a full-scale invasion. President Zelensky gathered foreign correspondents to scold them for writing “as though an army is marching down our streets.” Most Western media outlets do not have a permanent correspondent in Kyiv, or even in nearby European capitals such as Warsaw or Vienna, and yet more than two dozen journalists gathered to listen to the President in person. Their presence alone cast doubt on his message that there was no story there.

“There are more foreign correspondents here than at any point since 2014,” Nataliya Gumenyuk, a founder of the Public Interest Journalism Lab, told me. “I wonder: Are we normalizing the expectation of war? Or do they know something we don’t know? When is the moment we say, ‘Stop exaggerating,’ and when is the moment we must start getting ready?” Gumenyuk, who is thirty-eight, covered the Maidan and wrote a book on the occupation of Crimea. When I had dinner with her and her husband, Pyotr Ruzavin, at a restaurant with a tin ceiling, “Brooklyn pizza” on the menu, and an elaborate selection of teas, war seemed as unimaginable as ever. “I have been reading through all the scenarios,” Gumenyuk said. “Some Western papers are reporting that there will be an invasion of Kyiv by troops that will cross the border with Belarus, but how are they going to get here, through the swamps? It’s five hours by car.”

That’s really not far, I thought. “That’s really not far,” Ruzavin said.

Ruzavin, who is thirty, is a Russian journalist based in Moscow. He is tall and skinny and given to squinting and blushing when Gumenyuk corrects something that he has said, which is often. They were married four and a half years ago in Minsk, Belarus, a place that their friends from both Kyiv and Moscow could reach. They’ve continued to work in their respective cities (Ruzavin has worked for several outlets that the Russian state has branded as “foreign agents”), so theirs is a commuter marriage—which is to say, Ruzavin commutes to Kyiv. Commuting has become progressively harder. There have been no direct flights since 2015. When COVID hit, the overnight train from Moscow stopped running too. Ruzavin took to flying through Minsk, but, after Belarus forced down a Ryanair flight in order to arrest a dissident who was on board, European airlines stopped flying there. Now Ruzavin commutes via Istanbul or Amsterdam, a long and expensive journey.

Ruzavin thinks that the declaration of war will come by way of Russian television: when prominent media personalities start calling for an invasion of Kyiv or for abolishing the Ukrainian state, it will have begun. “They are the sirens of war,” he said. He was scheduled to fly back to Moscow in mid-January, but postponed his departure until after the Beijing Olympics. It’s a superstition of sorts: Russia launched its offensive against Georgia on the first day of the Summer Games in Beijing, in 2008, and invaded Crimea as the Winter Games in Sochi were winding down. (A rumor, vehemently denied by China, has it that Putin had promised Xi Jinping not to start a big war during the Olympics this time.)

“I’ve been keeping an eye on the Kerch Strait,” east of Crimea, Gumenyuk said, continuing to think through the possible signs that a new stage in the war has begun. “Or a cyberattack—they could take the Zaporizhia nuclear power plant out of commission. Two weeks ago, when someone hacked a dozen leading government sites, I thought it might have begun. But it was only the home pages—the hacks didn’t go deeper.”