Fans of HBO Max’s Raised by Wolves, are you ready to be taken back to the complex world of Kepler-22b? Well, get ready, because Raised by Wolves Season 2 premieres this very week.

And it has been a while since we visited the remote, dangerous planet… The last time viewers saw Mother (Amanda Collin) and Father (Abubakar Salim) was in 2020. Raised by Wolves left off with an unforgettable first season finale full of snake babies and new climates — and we are due for another explosive season.

So you’ve got your theories, you’re ready to reenter the conflict between the Mithraic and the Atheists… But do you know what time you can stream new episodes of Raised by Wolves on HBO Max? Do you know how many episodes are in store for the second season? Here’s everything you need to know to satisfy your sci-fi needs.

What time does Raised by Wolves premiere on HBO Max?

The first two episodes of Raised by Wolves will be available to stream on HBO Max at 3:00 a.m. ET / 12:00 a.m. PT on February 3. Since episodes will be ready when you wake up, it’s an exciting way to start your Thursday morning. Grab a big glass of android milk and start your day right.

How many episodes will be in Raised by Wolves season 2?

There will be eight episodes in the second season of Raised by Wolves. Two will be released on launch day, and after that a new episode will be released every Thursday from February 10 to March 17. Here’s the full schedule:

How long are the Raised by Wolves episodes?

The episodes usually run from 42 to 55 minutes long, though some may run longer. We’re sure with all the excitement going on, no matter how long they are it won’t feel like you watched enough for one week.

How to watch Raised by Wolves on HBO Max:

Raised by Wolves will be available to stream on HBO Max, which is available for $9.99 (with ads) or $14.99 (ad-free) per month (or $99.99/$149.99 a year). HBO Max includes all of HBO, along with additional movies, shows, and Max Originals. If you already have a subscription to HBO, you most likely have access to HBO Max, which is available to stream on Amazon devices, Apple TV, Google Chromecast, Roku, Android devices, and more.

How to watch Raised by Wolves on Hulu:

If you already have a Hulu account and want to add HBO Max to it, you can do so for an additional $14.99/month. A seven-day free trial is available for eligible subscribers.

Where to watch Raised by Wolves