Sebastian Stan fans may get to stan the actor in another beloved franchise.

The 39-year-old Marvel star recently expressed his joy at possibly being involved in the “Star Wars” universe.

In the past, Stan has been compared to Mark Hamill, who originated the role of Luke Skywalker in the films himself, and even refers to him as his “father.”

“Look, it’s really kind,” Stan told Esquire about the possibility of starring in a “Star Wars” project. “Never say never.”

“Mark Hamill is my father, you know, and he knows that,” the “Pam & Tommy” actor joked. “I call him every Christmas to tell him, ‘Just want you to know I’m around.’ It’s really terrifying.”

Stan previously discussed his desire to take part in the George Lucas-Disney world.

The Romanian-born filmmaker appeared on Good Morning America in March 2021 and revealed if Hamill, 70, contacted him, he would take on a role.

“Well, if Mark Hamill calls me personally to tell me that he feels inclined to share this role with me, then I’ll believe it,” Stan said at the time. “Until then, I won’t believe it.”

The “Kingsman” star even voiced his support for Stan in a 2017 tweet. Hamill shared a headshot of Stan next to a photo of himself from the 1993 film “Time Runner.”

Just a year later, he replied to a fan question about the “Gossip Girl” star, writing, “Sebastian doesn’t need my stamp of approval! He’s a wonderful actor & is never less than great in everything he does.”

Stan has been making headlines for his recent Hulu miniseries “Pam & Tommy,” in the role of the titular character of Pamela Anderson’s ex-husband Tommy Lee. One facet of the scandalous drama is a scene in Episode 2 where he has a conversation with his penis.

Telling Variety last month, Stan explained that a sequence shows the Mötley Crüe drummer meeting Pamela and discussing with himself if he has actually fallen in love.

He then has a pep talk with his genitalia. The story was actually inspired by an anecdote in Lee’s 2005 memoir, “Tommyland.”

Stan was perfectly fine with the raunchy scene and noted, “By the end of it, I treated it like it was an intimate buddy conversation that one might have when they’re falling in love.”