Tinder is dark and full of terrors (and the occasional successful hookup). From unsolicited dick pics to outrageous bios, there is no shortage of insanity on the famous dating app. In The Tinder Swindler, now streaming on Netflix, a handful of women end up in the worst case scenario: falling for a man they met on the app only to discover he’s a professional con artist. We’re here to let you know if this doc is worth swiping right on.

THE TINDER SWINDLER: STREAM IT OR SKIP IT?

The Gist: If you’re dating in today’s world, Tinder is almost unavoidable. You can find a little of everything on the app, according to Cecilie Fjellhoy, a young woman from Norway who considers herself a bit of a Tinder expert. She’s a hopeless romantic and admits she was on the app looking for longterm love, and designed her profile accordingly. Cecilie felt like she hit the jackpot when she matched with Simon, a billionaire’s son who lived his life in private jets, luxury cars, and attending amazing parties all over the world. Cecilie and Simon enter a bit of a whirlwind romance; they text and talk nonstop, he sends her extravagant bouquets, and soon asks her to be his girlfriend. It’s all sunshine and rainbows until Simon sends her a video of his bodyguard bloodied and beaten and tells her that because of security issues in the industry he’s not able to use his credit cards. And so began Cecilie’s descent into debt in the hopes of keeping Simon safe; in a short amount of time, she had taken out some $250,000 in loans from 9 different creditors. She was drowning. And unbeknownst to her, Simon was spending alllll this money on maintaining a lavish lifestyle with other women.

Enjoying Simon’s seemingly endless source of cash is Pernilla Sjoholm, another Tinder match who is on more platonic terms with him and is traveling through Greece and Italy with Simon and his Russian model girlfriend Polina. When Simon finally makes time to meet with Cecilie and pay her back, there’s space between them; things are not the same anymore, and Cecilie is about to discover the truth about Simon: that he does this for a living. She’s not the only one he’s done it to, either; over the course of the rest of The Tinder Swindler, we learn that he’s been caught doing this before to Finnish women, and he also swindles Pernilla, and another woman, Ayleen Charlotte. The truth about this man and his deception is somehow stranger than fiction, and the ending to this story might surprise you.

What Movies Will It Remind You Of?: The Tinder Swindler might remind you a bit of Don’t F**k with Cats: Hunting an Internet Killer, How to Sell Drugs Online (Fast), and Swiped: Hooking Up in the Digital Age.

Performance Worth Watching: Cecilie Fjellhoy is really the heart of The Tinder Swindler, generously sharing her feelings about true love and her hopelessly romantic nature with us as she chronicles her relationship with “Simon”. Cecilie loved hard and paid the price, and despite the trauma she endured, she offers her experience up to us with grace and resilience. It’s gutting to watch her begin her story with a twinkle of hope in her eye and then admit that she sought psychiatric help after she discovered the true intentions of the man she loved. Documentaries don’t work without great characters, and Cecilie is a genuinely compelling one, as relatable and empathetic as a best friend.

Memorable Dialogue: “The man I loved was never real,” could easily feel cheesy or lame in anyone else’s mouth, but when Cecilie chokes it out, it hits like a ton of bricks. These are the words of a woman who is still healing.

Sex and Skin: Some tastefully shot reenactments, but not much else.

Our Take: It only took a minute or two for me to get sucked into The Tinder Swindler, a documentary so juicy and jaw-dropping I had a hard time believing it was real. The story is one that feels made for the format, a salacious saga that speaks to the hearts of dating app users everywhere. Things start off on a fairly sweet note, walking us through the courtship phase and all the lovebombing Simon inflicts on his victims. It doesn’t take long for things to start seeming a little off, though, and it is painful to watch victims like Cecilie relive the trauma and humiliation of being defrauded by this man. The Tinder Swindler veers into thriller territory as it takes us through Simon’s threats and lies, and the shock and devastation he left in his wake. Before long, we enter the healing and revenge portion of the story, even if the ending isn’t the satisfying conclusion most true crime junkies might crave.

Despite its almost two-hour run time, The Tinder Swindler never drags, keeping a compelling pace as it paints a fascinating picture that almost seems too shocking to be true. Simon is truly the perfect villain; he might as well have been dreamed up by a devilish screenwriter, able to charm and terrify in one fell swoop. Every twist and turn would feel too far-fetched in any other context; who is actually shameless enough to pull something like this off? It turns out this Tinder Swindler is, and boy, do his exploits make for a good movie. The great movie here, though, is the one about the women who found a way to pick up the pieces and heal themselves after the unthinkable happened to them, and I’m so glad The Tinder Swindler puts such a focus on these resilient survivors.

Our Call: STREAM IT. It’s impossible to look away from The Tinder Swindler, a jaw-dropping documentary that will leave you equal parts furious, curious, and heartbroken.

Jade Budowski is a freelance writer with a knack for ruining punchlines, hogging the mic at karaoke, and thirst-tweeting. Follow her on Twitter: @jadebudowski.