I recognized, watching the first episode of Pam & Tommy, that I was being manipulated. It’s told from Rand’s point of view; it keeps Tommy and especially Pam mostly in the background, except when they’re antagonizing Rand; it plays on (most) viewers’ class solidarity with the struggling worker against the profligate jerk who’s tossing money every which way except at his contractors. All of this makes it easy to forget the facts: robbing an ex-client is bad enough, but what Rand’s eventually going to do with one particular item in the safe he steals is even worse. Arriving at the second episode, I have a lot more qualms about what we’re doing, and I question the taste level of…I guess everyone involved.

“I Love You, Tommy” sends us back two months before Rand and Uncle Miltie screened the stolen sex tape. Pam, out at a club with her girls, pledges that she’s done with bad boys; the next guy she dates will be “boring” — maybe an accountant. To celebrate this new era, she orders a round of Goldschlager shots for the whole bar, but unbeknownst to her, one of the patrons that night happens to be Tommy, who hears whose largesse has brought this free shot to him, abandons the woman he’s just been making out with, and heads straight to his benefactress.

Cue the whirlwind! To make a short story a lot shorter than the show should have, Tommy becomes instantly obsessed with Pam. She seems like she’s trying to resist him and remain available to a hypothetical boring accountant, but can’t help looking dismayed when the roses waiting for her at her Cancún hotel (where she’ll be mingling with a group of Baywatch syndicators) are from Telepictures, not Tommy.

Sure, Pam forbade Tommy from following her there, but of course she didn’t really mean it…so it’s a good thing that Tommy has actually ignored her. Pam brushes off her friend Melanie (Pepi Sonuga) and her attempts to remind her about other famous but unreliable men she’s wasted her time on — Scott Baio, Bret Michaels, her Baywatch co-star David Charvet — and they meet up for more clubbing. Before you know it, Tommy — after confiding in his buddy Zakk (Sam Meader) that he and Pam haven’t actually had sex yet — Tommy is proposing to Pam in the middle of yet another club. She accepts; they are married on a Mexican beach four days after their first meeting; and upon their return to L.A., she moves into his house in Malibu, where construction is about to start on his remodel and he meets Lonnie and Rand for the first time. They probably should have seen trouble coming when one of the first things he tells them is that the concept is no longer “Bachelor Pad 3000” but rather “Love Deluxe,” in honor of his new bride.

So: the issue of taste. I am hopeful that, as it continues, the series will do more to bring Pam into three dimensions. A brief flashforward in the series premiere shows her in a Tonight Show appearance, trying to parry intrusive questions from Jay Leno about what it’s like to “have that kind of exposure”; her face indicates how much she’d like to say about the violation of being exposed in one of the most private moments a person can experience, knowing she can’t express those feelings and continue having a career. But the sense that comes through this episode is, overwhelmingly, “Get a load of these morons.” (See also: I, Tonya, another sour look at a notoriously lurid ’90s crime directed by Craig Gillespie, who helmed this episode as well.)

We’re meant to think that after spending every moment together starting when Tommy tracks Pam down at her hotel and not even filling that time with sex, it’s not until they’re on the plane home that it occurs to Tommy to ask what Pam’s favorite movie is. (She likes rom-coms; he’s a horror guy.) Back at his property, she suggests putting up a meditation gazebo; he claims he also meditates, and is telling her how much it’s helped him get “way more chill and calm” when, mid-sentence, he spots and threatens a paparazzo lurking by the fence. A scene in the bedroom, when they’re flipping channels and stumble across one of Pam’s favorite films, The King And I, could have been sweet; however (a) a “Getting To Know You” sing-along is a bit on-the-nose, given the episode’s trajectory; and (b) though anyone who’s seen her in the Mamma Mia sequel knows Lily James can sing, she’s directed to warble it like an awkward sixth-grader. Tommy’s just finished assuring Pam, who didn’t want to watch herself on Baywatch, that she’s a great actress who could do anything, including Shakespeare, the show’s writer and director want to make sure you know that musicals are off the table for her.

And look, I understand that montages are a useful way to show the passage of time on screen. I just think four — two depicting horny club dancing, two depicting sexual activity — is a lot for a single episode. That said, no one is going to remember those after screening “I Love You, Tommy.” Rather, they will remember the scene when Tommy and Pam first disrobe in front of each other, allowing the actors to show off their state-of-the-art prosthetics; and they will remember the scene when Tommy has a conversation with his own penis, voiced by Jason Mantzoukas (no credit for its puppeteer, because yes, the penis also moves around while it’s talking). Tommy insists that Pam is The One; his penis, much like Pam’s friend Melanie, is wary of infatuation making him move too fast. Mantzoukas is always funny, but this feels like an idea that was included so that the entertainment press could report it and build buzz for the project: if so, it was far more effective as a hype driver than it is in the context of the episode.

Anyway: Pam and Tommy are married. Pam and Tommy enjoy having sex with each other. And Pam and Tommy have a video camera they will be using to record their intimate time together.
• If you recognized Melanie in this episode but weren’t sure where from: she’s also currently starring in ABC’s hip hop soap Queens as up-and-coming artist/aspiring lawyer Lauren “Lil Muffin” Rice.
• My Canadian heart was delighted by Pam’s reference to her hometown of Ladysmith, which she says is near Vancouver but is, in fact, on Vancouver Island; it’s also currently playing Patience, Colorado in Syfy’s comedy Resident Alien.
• In the course of their argument, Tommy and his penis disagree on Tommy’s romantic history, the penis reminding Tommy that he once thought “Heather” was The One, and noting that if he doesn’t commit to Pam, other women — like Denise Richards — will be available to him. “Heather” is, of course, Heather Locklear, Tommy’s second wife; they had married in 1986 and divorced in 1993, around the time she started playing Amanda Woodward on Melrose Place. As for Richards: her star really started to rise after this; she had a brief arc on Melrose‘s fourth season, in 1996; Starship Troopers followed in 1997, followed by Wild Things in 1998 and both Drop Dead Gorgeous and the James Bond film The World Is Not Enough in 1999. But! Locklear’s and Richards’s names were previously this close together in a notable pop culture project in September 2020: the final reunion episode of The Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills‘s tenth season. Lisa Rinna — who co-starred with Locklear in the later years of Melrose Place — vaguely referred to wrong done to Locklear by Richards (by then also a Beverly Hills Housewife) and invited the audience to “Google it.” The whole sordid timeline is here, but in brief, Richards and Locklear seem to have been friends when Locklear co-starred with Richards’s then husband, Charlie Sheen, in Spin City; then, shortly after Locklear’s divorce from Bon Jovi’s Richie Sambora, Richards started dating him. Subject for a follow-up Hulu limited series…?

Television Without Pity, Fametracker, and Previously.TV co-founder Tara Ariano has had bylines in The New York Times Magazine, Vanity Fair, Vulture, Slate, Salon, Mel Magazine, Collider, and The Awl, among others. She co-hosts the podcasts Extra Hot Great, Again With This (a compulsively detailed episode-by-episode breakdown of Beverly Hills, 90210 and Melrose Place), Listen To Sassy, and The Sweet Smell Of Succession. She’s also the co-author, with Sarah D. Bunting, of A Very Special 90210 Book: 93 Absolutely Essential Episodes From TV’s Most Notorious Zip Code (Abrams 2020). She lives in Austin.