Public education in New York City is at a crossroads. Enrollment is in decline, particularly in the early grades. It’s partly due to a decline in the birth rate — but don’t discount parental discontent with the city’s schools in response to the COVID pandemic.

Mayor Adams and Chancellor David Banks are well suited to get the system on the right path once again. Both are lifelong New Yorkers with pragmatic approaches to policy and a commitment to strengthen New York’s communities. Gov. Hochul has also signaled her support in Albany with her commitment to extend mayoral control of the school system.

Together, these three can beat back those politicians who would use the schools to divide the city’s communities rather than unite them in a common vision of educational excellence.

The path forward is clear. Because parents have alternatives to the city’s traditional public schools, the system’s leaders need to listen to those parents and be responsive to their concerns. The previous administration not only tried to impose its will on parents but demonized particular communities in its so-called pursuit of equity.

The mayor and chancellor also need to work to improve access to high-quality schools, particularly in black and Hispanic communities. They can do so by increasing the number of gifted and talented schools and programs in the city, not by eliminating them. The same is true for selective high schools. Rather than demonizing the students who get in (often Asian students), the system should increase the supply of seats in academically advanced high schools, including high-performing schools that use alternative admissions systems.

Academic achievement must be at the center of the school system’s mission. New York has always been a city of immigrants and its politics have always embraced a progressive bent. But teaching our history accurately, warts and all, does not require the city’s educators to separate students or staff by racial identity to engage in dubious training exercises that benefit no one. Academic achievement is not an alternative to social justice; it is the best way to achieve social justice.

Parents understand that, and their choice in school enrollment demonstrates their disapproval of current public-school offerings. More than 125,000 black and Hispanic children are attending charter schools in the city this year. Last year, almost 49,000 were in private and religious schools in the city.

At the same time, while more than half of the city’s white students are enrolled in private or religious schools, 90% of Asian students are found in the Department of Education’s schools. Parents pursue what they believe to be best for their children and given the enrollment decline, the public-school system can no longer presume to “fix” what they allege is wrong with the children or engineer particular racial outcomes, while failing to fix their own schools.

Prior to the de Blasio administration, the city’s school system accomplished historic overhaul of its long-failing high-school system, which I detail in a recent Manhattan Institute report, by closing low-performing schools and creating new and innovative high schools. Today, almost 60% of public high-school students in the city attend these schools. Independent research documented that student performance in these schools was higher than it had been in the schools they replaced.

While these schools are not performing miracles, current data show that small schools are getting their students to progress through the grades, earn passing scores on the necessary Regents exams and graduate on time about 84% of the time.

Mayor Bill de Blasio abandoned this strategy — and thought he could fix failing schools by throwing money at them. But after wasting $750 million on this effort, no improvement was accomplished.

Adams would be better served in returning to strategy of closing failing schools and opening new ones that can start off with a small student body and new mission.

While enrollment in the city’s district schools is down over the last two years, enrollment in charter schools continues to grow, despite the unconscionable cap on opening new charters in the city, imposed by the Democratic leadership of the state legislature. Gov. Kathy Hochul’s role is clear here. She needs to forcefully point to the extensive research documenting the success of charter schools, particularly with black and Hispanic children, while also showing that the growth of charter schools in the city has not harmed the traditional public schools; it has enhanced the performance of them.

If the mayor and chancellor, in all that they do, keep the focus on achievement in all communities and emphasize the safety and well-being of youngsters over ideology, they will enjoy support among the city’s diverse communities. Hochul should do her part to support them in this critical work.

Too much has been lost in the city’s schools over the last few years to move gingerly.

Ray Domanico is a senior fellow and director of education policy at the Manhattan Institute.