As The Days Of Noah Were: Part 2 of Our Interview with Geoffrey Grider from Now The End Begins Live On The Soul Trap

I am excited this morning, Part #2 of our visit with The Soul Trap just dropped on Rumble, and I am watching it now as I write this article to you today. We live in amazing times where Bible prophecy is side-by-side in the headlines with the daily news, something not seen since perhaps the regathering of Israel on May 14th in 1948.

“Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marvellously: for I will work a work in your days, which ye will not believe, though it be told you.” Habakkuk 1:5 (KJB)

On this episode of The Soul Trap, we talk about some hardcore revelations from Bible prophecy, and we hope it will be a blessing to you. Click to watch the interview that YouTube refused to allow because it rips the mask off the current global conspiracy here at Day 688 of 15 Days To Flatten The Curve.

Now The End Begins is your front line defense against the rising tide of darkness in the last Days before the Rapture of the Church
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page When you contribute to this fundraising effort, you are helping us to do what the Lord called us to do. The money you send in goes primarily to the overall daily operations of this site. When people ask for Bibles, we send them out at no charge. When people write in and say how much they would like gospel tracts but cannot afford them, we send them a box at no cost to them for either the tracts or the shipping, no matter where they are in the world. Even all the way to South Africa. We even restarted our weekly radio Bible study on Sunday nights again, thanks to your generous donations. All this is possible because YOU pray for us, YOU support us, and YOU give so we can continue growing. But whatever you do, don’t do nothing. Time is short and we need your help right now. If every one of the 15,860+ people on our daily mailing list gave $4.50, we would reach our goal immediately. If every one of our 150,000+ followers on Facebook gave $1.00 each, we would reach 300% of our goal. The same goes for our 16,400 followers on Twitter. But sadly, many will not give, so we need the ones who can and who will give to be generous. As generous as possible. “Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;” Titus 2:13 (KJV)
• HOW TO DONATE: Click here to view our WayGiver Funding page