Just when you think Donald Trump can get no worse, something new comes out about him. Washington Post reported on the condition of some of the documents the House Select Committee received from the National Archives, and it is appalling. “Appalling” is a better word than “shocking,” since nothing Trump does or did should shock anyone. Apparently, Trump had a nasty habit of ripping up documents, but fortunately, his aides saved them.

WaPo reported that Trump was notorious for ripping documents into shreds and throwing them on the floor. Those familiar said that even though Trump was aware of the President Records Act, he continued this behavior well into the last stages of his “presidency.” As is typical for Trump, he does not follow rules, laws, or anything else for that matter. WaPo reported that the National Archives confirmed Trump’s behavior, which the outlet called “unusual.” Everything about Trump was unusual. Destroying presidential records? That is completely over the top. This, once again, demonstrates the pure insanity that is Donald Trump.

All these months, he has been trying to exert executive privilege over White House documents, when he knew full well that he had been ripping everything to shreds. Fortunately, there were some people in that White House who knew that those documents were not to be destroyed, and they gathered up the pieces and taped back together what they could and preserved them as required. Just imagine the looks on the faces of the House Select Committee when they received boxes of torn and taped together documents. Amazingly, some of the documents were presented shredded to the committee. Can you imagine what it must have been like to work in this chaotic, insanity-ridden administration? No wonder some people left screaming. They probably had to seek counseling, not to mention wondering whether they would be accessories to Trump’s criminal activities.

As CBS News confirmed, the Presidential Records Act requires that “memos, letters, emails and other documents be preserved and given to the Archives at the end of the administration.” There is probably plenty in those notes that will bury Donald Trump, including notes on his December 18 meeting, reported by MSNBC, during which he discussed using the military to seize voting machines with Sidney Powell and Michael Flynn. According to the Times, military leaders said that such an ask was illegal. That certainly never stopped Trump before, but we are finding out more every day how fortunate we are that Trump was defeated. Imagine the damage this man would have continued to inflict on our country with another four years. It also appears that the committee has documents from Mark Meadows about these briefings, as well as the testimony of Peter Navarro, admitting to attempts to overturn the election.

The lengths to which Donald Trump went to wear out his welcome in the people’s White House are truly amazing. As MSNBC’s correspondent said, “What we are seeing is a consistent intent to steal the election.” As information continues to be revealed, we can hope that Trump is finally taken to task for his unlawful attempts to stay in office after he was clearly not wanted.