Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight.

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail.

“In any compromise between food and poison, it is only death that can win. In any compromise between good and evil, it is only evil that can profit.” Ayn Rand.

Catering To The Left’s Delusions Greenlights Sex Crimes, Looting, And Torturing Children

The leaders of our most basic institutions will do everything in their power to ensure that you cater to their delusions. Don’t.

Two news stories stood out to me over the past few days, and though they went largely unnoticed by the corporate press, I can’t stop thinking about them and what they signify.

The first is about Lia Thomas, a man who has been shattering records as a member of the University of Pennsylvania women’s swim team. He has reportedly been making his female teammates very uncomfortable when he fails to cover up his penis in the women’s locker room.

“It’s definitely awkward because Lia still has male body parts and is still attracted to women,” one of his teammates told The Daily Mail.

The second story is about a 26-year-old man in California who recently pleaded guilty to molesting a 10-year-old girl in a women’s bathroom eight years ago. This man, whose name was James Tubbs at the time of the crime but who now goes by “Hannah,” has been sentenced to just two years in the female section of a juvenile facility — because he was two weeks shy of his 18th birthday at the time of the crime and because he now claims to be a woman.

In one case, we have a heterosexual man flashing his genitals to his female teammates in the locker room before smoking other women in the pool. In the other, we have an adult male who, instead of being registered as a sex offender, will be shipped off to a children’s facility where he’ll be housed with girls like the one he molested.

These stories have some things in common. They’re obviously both shocking to rational listeners because they both defy logic and decency. Additionally, in both cases, men are actively harming young women.

Furthermore, both accounts are swept under the rug by the corrupt press, which doesn’t want to give them airtime not because they don’t have news value — they absolutely do — but because they don’t support the proper narrative.

Embedded within that last commonality, however, the one about the leftist-dominated media not caring, is a rampant problem within our ruling institutions that extends far wider than cable television and deeper than the gender war. It’s the simple fact that our basic institutions — from the halls of government and our entertainment industry to our newsrooms and classrooms and laboratories — have adopted, as one of their core functions, catering to delusion.

This is evident in the stories above. In them, universities, legal experts, parents, and the press — all of whom intuitively know that men and women are different — have opted for catering to the delusions of a couple of sick men over protecting vulnerable females and children.

It happens all the time in the sex realm. Medical “experts” cater to delusion when they refer healthy men for castration and women for mastectomies. School administrators do the same when they insist that teachers call little boys “she/her” if they so desire.

But transgender politics is not an outlier regarding the left’s delusions. It’s crucial to recognize that such celebrated irrationality throughout our culture is a cause of our institutional decline, not merely its effect.

Consider how catering to delusion is contributing to the breakdown of law and order in this country. In 2020, Americans experienced the “summer of rage,” when Black Lives Matter rioters killed civilians and police officers and caused billions of dollars in damage to small businesses and government buildings.

They were given a free pass by so many in the media and halls of power, who justified the violence by citing rampant shootings of unarmed black Americans by police. In fact, these talking points led to soft-on-crime policies that caused violence and murder in our nation’s cities to skyrocket.

But it’s a delusion. The data just don’t support the narrative that police officers are indiscriminately killing unarmed black men. It’s a lie, and it’s one catered to by corporate media, college admissions officers and “diversity” chiefs, corporate America, Hollywood, and even the president of the United States.

It’s the same story with Covid-19. All available evidence has shown for two years that the virus negatively affects almost exclusively the elderly and those with a handful of comorbidities (including obesity). Yet rather than encourage exercise and target mitigation strategies at the old and infirm, our institutions have hustled to keep up the delusion that the Wuhan virus is our worst affliction, ramping up talk of case numbers when the variants’ lethality began waning.

Thus while the media plasters morbidly obese models on the covers of our magazines and blames the disease on the unvaccinated, our teachers unions and school districts are keeping healthy children at home, endlessly muzzled, or banished out in the winter air to eat.

It doesn’t stop there. Everywhere you look is another left-wing delusion. Behind the cries from climate alarmists and their ruling-class enablers that you must stop eating meat and having children is the delusion that the world is less than a decade from apocalyptic doom. Behind the policymakers’ push for socialized health care and “human infrastructure” is the delusion that the state can care for you better than you can care for you. Behind calls for equity or a pledge to appoint a black woman to the U.S. Supreme Court is the delusion that skin color is more important than character and ability (a delusion better known as racism).

It isn’t too hard to expose these absurdities. As in the cases of Lia Thomas and Hannah Tubbs, however, the problem isn’t so much that there are delusional people in this world. It’s that key players in our most basic institutions are intent on catering to these delusions, often at the expense of the vulnerable. Worse, they’ll do everything in their power to ensure you cater to the delusions too.