Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

Follow me on Gettr. I am there, click here. It's open and free.

Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight.

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail.

Texas mother regrets vote for Biden after teen daughter killed by illegal immigrant: ‘I want to know why’

Illegal immigrant who killed American teen won’t be deported under Biden policy

Adrienne Sophia Exum, a 19-year-old from Texas, was killed by an illegal immigrant who was driving drunk. Adrienne’s mother, Rhonda Exum, was told the man would be deported, but under President Biden’s immigration policies, he is staying in the country.

Rhonda Exum is looking for answers. She said she was never informed when the deportation decision was rescinded.

“I really want to know why,” Exum said on “Fox & Friends First” Tuesday.

“By him not being deported, it’s like you telling me my daughter’s life didn’t mean anything.”

Adrienne’s cousin, Tranette Gamboa, told Fox News’ Todd Piro that she was shocked to find out the man would not be deported.

Exum, who voted for Biden in the 2020 presidential election, said she’s disappointed.

“I thought he was going to talk for the American people, basically, and not for himself,” she said. “I don’t feel that he has done anything but disappoint.”

DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas issued the following statement regarding the administration’s updated enforcement policies: “For the first time, our guidelines will, in the pursuit of public safety, require an assessment of the individual and take into account the totality of the facts and circumstances. …”

Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton responded to Mayorkas by saying it “doesn’t matter” to the administration that an illegal immigrant killed Adrienne Exum.

“I believe that Biden has betrayed our country. He’s betraying families that are losing people right and left,” Paxton said. “I think the answer to the ‘why?’ is that they have greater goals that are more important than saving members of families.”

Rhonda Exum continued to ask why her daughter’s killer is allowed to remain in the country.

“My message is: Look out for the American people first.”