Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

Follow me on Gettr. I am there, click here. It's open and free.

Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight.

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail.

Power station mocked for lighting up chimneys on Holocaust Remembrance Day

 February 1, 2022

 Power station mocked for lighting up chimneys on Holocaust Remembrance Day

The chimneys of London’s Battesea Power Station lit up to commemorate the Holocaust. (Twitter/Screenshot)

 Tweet

London’s Battersea Power Station was participating in a “Light Up the Darkness” campaign to commemorate the Holocaust.

London’s Battersea Power Station took a battering on social media after posting an image of its chimneys lit up in honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day, the Jewish Chronicle reported on Tuesday.

“We’re lighting our chimneys purple this evening to take part in the #LightTheDarkness national moment today. On #HolocaustMemorialDay, we remember those who suffered and we stand against prejudice and hatred in the world today,” said a now-deleted tweet.

According to the Chronicle, the tweet only began drawing attention this week. Chimneys have been associated with the Nazi death camps. After Jews were killed in the gas chambers, the bodies were typically burnt in crematoria with chimneys venting the smoke and ashes into the air and the surrounding countryside.

In a statement, Olivia Marks-Woldman, the Chief Executive of Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, which organised the Light the Darkness campaign said: “We approached Battersea Power Station to light up in purple as part of the national ‘Light the darkness’ moment for Holocaust Memorial Day.”

“Over 150 different landmarks up and down the country lit up on the day – with a variety of buildings. Their chimneys were part of the many purple lights across London, including the Houses of Parliament, London Eye, BT Tower, The Gherkin, Natural History Museum, Southbank Centre and many more, and it was amazing to see each and every light up,” the statement added.

The statement did not mention if the Trust was aware that the chimneys themselves would be lit.

Battersea declined to comment for the Chronicle, but on Tuesday evening, it followed up with a tweet responding to the Trust’s statement, thanking the Trust for clarifying the matter. “We were really pleased to be asked to be involved in the ‘Light the darkness’ moment for the second year. We have taken the comments on board and will think of an alternative way to show our support next year,” Battersea tweeted.

The power station, built in the 1930s along the Thames River, used to be a coal-fired power station. Today, the brick, art deco-style edifice, is owned by a Malaysian consortium and houses a number of restaurants, shops and night-life venues.

The Truth Must be Told Please take a moment to consider this. Now, more than ever, people are reading Geller Report for news they won't get anywhere else. But advertising revenues have all but disappeared. Google Adsense is the online advertising monopoly and they have banned us. Social media giants like Facebook and Twitter have blocked and shadow-banned our accounts. But we won't put up a paywall. Because never has the free world needed independent journalism more. Everyone who reads our reporting knows the Geller Report covers the news the media won't. We cannot do our ground-breaking report without your support. We must continue to report on the global jihad and the left's war on freedom. Our readers’ contributions make that possible. Geller Report's independent, investigative journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce. But we do it because we believe our work is critical in the fight for freedom and because it is your fight, too. Make a monthly commitment to support The Geller Report – choose the option that suits you best.