Remember, YOU make the work possible. If you can, please contribute to Geller Report.

Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW when informed decision making and opinion is essential to America's survival. Share our posts on your social channels and with your email contacts. Fight the great fight.

Quick note: Tech giants are shutting us down. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense, Pinterest permanently banned us. Facebook, Google search et al have shadow-banned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. We will not waver. We will not tire. We will not falter, and we will not fail. Freedom will prevail.

Rewriting history – as long as its racist (the right race) and antisemitic is sanctioned by our leftist overlords.

Whoopi Goldberg Claims The Holocaust Was Not About Jewish Race

Whoopi Goldberg Suspended for Two Weeks for Holocaust Remarks

Whoopi Goldberg has been suspended from ABC’s The View for two weeks in light of her controversial comments about the Holocaust.

ABC News president Kim Godwin confirmed the suspension on Tuesday and released a statement: “Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments. While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments. The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities.”

Tomorrow’s episode of The View will air with just four co-hosts: Joy Behar, Sunny Hostin, Sara Haines and guest co-host Tara Setmayer.

The uproar began on Monday’s episode of the ABC daytime talk show, during a discussion about a Tennessee school board’s banning of the graphic novel Maus, when Goldberg said that “the Holocaust isn’t about race… it’s about man’s inhumanity to man.” Her comments sparked immediate backlash from the Jewish community and beyond, and The View welcomed several prominent representatives of the Jewish community the following day to explain why Goldberg’s comments were hurtful.

Goldberg issued an apology on Monday night: “On today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’ I should have said it is about both. As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazis’ systematic annihilation of the Jewish people — who they deemed to be an inferior race.’ I stand corrected. The Jewish people around the world have always had my support, and that will never waver. I’m sorry for the hurt that I have caused.”

She also discussed the controversy on Monday’s Late Show With Stephen Colbert, saying in part: “It upset a lot of people, which was never ever, ever my intention. I feel, being Black, when we talk about race, it’s a very different thing to me. So I said I thought the Holocaust wasn’t about race. And people got very angry and still are angry. I’m getting a lot of mail from folks and a lot of real anger.”