Billie Eilish has announced the UK release date for her debut perfume. (Instagram)

Billie Eilish has announced the UK release date for her sold-out perfume – and it’s very soon.

The singer announced the news on her Instagram, saying that was she “so so excited” about the UK launch of the perfume.

Fans can get their hands on the Billie Eilish perfume from 8 March, in-store at Harrods and online at harrods.com.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

The price of the perfume is yet to be revealed, but it’s priced at $68 in the US, so this should give fans an idea of the price mark.

The news of the UK release of the perfume comes after it sold-out online in November 2021 immediately after its launch.

Talking about creating the scent, she says: “It was like a dream, I’ve done a lot of amazing things and gotten to experience so many incredible things.

“This journey was probably my favourite of everything.”

The perfume comes is vegan and cruelty-free and is described as having notes of sugared petals, creamy vanilla, and warm musks.

It also comes in a stunning, golden bust-shaped bottle that Eilish has posed with in the campaign shots.

To shop the Billie Eilish perfume from 8 March head to Harrods in-store or harrods.com.

Billie Eilish is heading out on the Happier Than Ever world tour

This February, the singer will embark on her headline Happier Than Ever world tour.

It kicks off on the 3 February and visits arenas across North America before heading to the UK and Europe in June.

She will also headline Coachella, making her the youngest ever headliner of the music festival, which takes place on 16 April and 23 April.

The tour is in support of her number one album of the same name which features singles “Therefore I Am”, “NDA” and “Your Power”.

Tickets were snapped up for a number of dates when they first went on sale, resulting in extra shows being added due to demand. But there’s still a chance to get some from ticketmaster.co.uk.