In a shocking turn of events, a literal highway robbery gone wrong in Texas resulted in the perpetrator shooting himself in the head while trying to rob another driver at gunpoint.

We kid you not. The story is as insane as that sounds.

Local Houston, Texas news channels reported on a dramatic story involving attempted robbery on the Katy Freeway near the Hedwig Village area of Texas on January 26.

According to eyewitness accounts and a harrowing eyewitness video provided to the news station, the suspect – later identified as Carlos Marquez – abruptly stopped his vehicle in the middle of the freeway, blocking two cars directly behind him, got out and started yelling at the drivers behind him.

One anonymous witness expressed his shock at the unbelievable scene, telling local news station KHOU 11, “It was crazy. No one could believe it.I mean, who gets out on the middle of I-10 during rush hour?”

“Cars were zooming by him literally and he's just yelling at some guy," he added.

That witness left the highway but then re-entered a short time later and encountered an even more disturbing scene involving the same suspect and the driver of one of the vehicles he blocked.

This time the two men were on the side of the road but Marquez had a pistol drawn and pointed at the other man. The eyewitness’ video – taken from inside his vehicle as he drove by the scene – depicts Marquez pointing his gun at the victim who was kneeling down on the side of the road.

The witness’ video also showed Marquez shooting at the victim at least twice. The anonymous witness attempted to call 911 but got no answer. He took his video into the local police station shortly after witnessing the scene.

A local NBC affiliate reported eyewitness accounts which revealed there was even more horror and drama to the scene. After the second shot, witnesses say the victim fought back, prompting Marquez to shoot again.

“The suspect fired a third shot, which caused injury to his own head,” the station reported. You can’t make this stuff up.

After the gun injured the suspect, other witnesses rushed to aid the victim and began wrestling with the perpetrator. They kept him subdued until cops made the arrest.

After the suspect was taken to the hospital to be treated for his self-inflicted gunshot wounds, he was identified. It turns out Marquez was “on bond from Donley County, Texas for aggravated assault on a peace officer and evading arrest,” the NBC affiliate reported. His weapon was also stolen out of Houston.

Marquez has been charged with aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon.