Could the liberal media possibly be any more contemptuous and condescending toward us poor, benighted, conservative rubes?

Alexi McCammond of Axios.com, who doubles as an MSNBC contributor, appeared on Nicolle Wallace's MSNBC show on Thursday to discuss the confirmation battle over Stephen Breyer's replacement.

"It doesn't matter, necessarily, what the polls show about support for abortion or Roe v. Wade being constitutional law. Republicans know how to strike a nerve in accord with their voters. And know that [their] voters can often be emotional instead of rational. "Democrats feel that they have polling, and legislation, and policy ideas on their side, they know that Republicans are better at controlling the narrative."

Translation: Democrats have truth on their side. But those damned Republican politicians are able to manipulate their gullible, malleable voters! Oh, and somehow despite a dominant liberal media pretending to be "mainstream," conservatives somehow control the narrative.

What they actually mean by that is the liberals aren't dominant enough to ignore everything Republicans and conservatives say.

So Republican voters are more emotional than rational? Unlike those rational Democrat voters, who've been emoting about the world about to end within 12 years due to global warming. Who run to their safe spaces and demand the cancellation of anyone who disagrees with their dogma. Who think women athletes should be forced to compete against biological males. Yup, totally rational! No emotion there!

On Nicolle Wallace's MSNBC show, Alexi McCammond of Axios saying claiming that Republican voters "can often be emotional instead of rational" was sponsored in part by Kraft, maker of Philadelphia Cream Cheese, and Clear Choice.

NICOLLE WALLACE: I wonder what the sort of consternation is—if the Republican party is capable of any—about having the [Supreme] Court be front-and-center all year? ALEXI MCCAMMOND: I mean, I think you know this well, Nicolle. The Republican party is often not in lockstep with what polls show voters want. And that's true of abortion, as you said, but that's also true of something like vaccine and mask mandates. Polls and focus groups show that Americans, parents in particular, aren't as in opposition to these things as the Republican party continues to be. And I think that is something that they don't care about, because the know they can use the Supreme Court to beef up this larger narrative around the culture wars. It doesn't matter, necessarily, what the polls show about support for abortion or Roe v. Wade being constitutional law. Republicans know how to strike a nerve in accord with their voters. And know that [their] voters can often be emotional instead of rational when it comes to voting, or telling a pollster how they feel about things. And so I think that while Democrats feel that they have polling, and legislation, and policy ideas on their side, they know that Republicans are better at controlling the narrative in spite of those things, and I think that's what Republicans are going to continue to lean on.