It appears Sens. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) are doing just fine despite efforts from their party to punish them for not toeing the line on ending the filibuster and passing the Democrats’ voting rights legislation. Both lawmakers are still making enormous fundraising numbers, even though the party and their close friends and allies in the activist media are looking for ways to primary them.

A Politico report noted that Sinema has seen her best fundraising quarter since last year. The author pointed out that while her grassroots donors have decreased, she has gathered almost $1.6 million during the last three months of 2021. About two percent of her contributions – roughly $34,000 – came from small-dollar donors, individuals who make donations that amount to $200 or less.

Sinema has come under fire from the left for opposing parts of their agenda, including changing the filibuster rules, using the reconciliation process to increase minimum wage, and other policies.

Sen. Manchin, who is up for re-election in 2024, is also flying high with a fantastic fundraising effort in 2021’s last quarter. CNBC reported:

The report also noted that the senator’s campaign “raise[d] just more than $1.5 million in the fourth quarter, ending the period with over $6 million on hand” and that Manchin “has never raised that much money over the October-December quarter.”

The increase in donations occurred after he appeared on Fox News in December and announced he would not support President Joe Biden’s Build Back Bater Act. Like Sinema, Manchin has been a thorn in the side of Democrats, who hold half of the Senate seats. They have blocked the more radical elements of the legislative proposals the Democrats have put forth.

Progressives and even moderate Democrats have been plotting primary challenges against the two senators, hoping to replace them with people who are more amenable to following the party’s lead than representing their constituents. And therein lies the problem for Democrats; Manchin and Sinema are doing exactly what they were elected to do: represent the people who voted them in.

Neither senator represents a solidly blue state. It would be folly for them to vote against the interests of their constituents and support the far-left agenda. If these fundraising numbers are any indication, neither lawmaker is going to have a serious problem during 2024’s primary season. But this won’t stop the far left from trying.