The saga of Whoopi Golberg’s anti-Semitic commentary continues apace. If you aren’t familiar with the original story, click here for the full details. In short, Goldberg tried to argue on “The View” that the Holocaust was “not about race” and that it was just “white people fighting white people.” That’s a common trope meant to minimize the Holocaust as some kind of lesser form of discrimination.

Goldberg, never being the sharpest tool in the shed, then went on with Stephen Colbert to explain herself. That didn’t go well, and she essentially doubled down. That likely represented the breaking point for ABC’s management because the next day, they suspended her for two weeks.

Initially, some speculated that Goldberg was happy with the suspension because it offered her protection while things blew over. That doesn’t appear to be the case, though. New reports are emerging that Goldberg is “livid” and is now threatening to quit “The View.”

The New York Post reported that a source, described as a well-placed insider, told the newspaper that Goldberg is “livid” and feels “humiliated” over the suspension. “She feels ABC executives mishandled this. She followed their playbook. She went on ‘The Late Show With Steven Colbert’ and then apologized again on ‘The View’ the next day,” the source told the Post. “Her ego has been hurt and she’s telling people she’s going to quit. Suspension from ‘The View’ is like getting suspended from Bravo. The bar is very low.”

But did she follow their playbook? Yes, she went on with Colbert, but I’m pretty sure the ABC executives didn’t want her to reiterate her fallacious belief that the Holocaust was not about race and that it was somehow different than the discrimination suffered by black Americans. But Goldberg was so wrapped up in her intersectional ideology that she actually managed to make the same mistake twice, out of some weird obsession with pronouncing one type of discrimination as superior to another.

I can’t say for sure, but I still contend that had Goldberg gone on with Colbert and just profusely apologized and disowned her commentary, she probably wouldn’t have been suspended. When that second round of viral clips started the circulate, ABC had to make a move. When they did, it was a relative slap on the wrist. It’s not like she was fired and ostracized.

Still, Goldberg’s ego has apparently gotten the best of her. The right move here would have been to take it on the chin, recognize she got off light, and return in two weeks to great fanfare. Instead, she’s reportedly throwing a fit and threatening to quit. Given the headaches she’s caused the network over the years, ABC might be apt to take her up on that offer.

For my part, I think Goldberg’s reaction, if it’s true, is silly. When someone makes a mistake and the consequences fit the crime, then what is there to complain about? There are actually a lot of people on the right, having learned zero lessons over the last decade, who are insisting Goldberg shouldn’t have been suspended. I guess they think taking such a position will buy goodwill with the left? I wouldn’t hold my breath if I were them, though.

I just don’t see the big deal. Goldberg is getting a two-week vacation for actions that would have gotten any right-leaning figure fired and expelled from society. If anything, she should consider herself lucky to have the privilege she has.