On Tuesday, Senator John Kennedy weighed in on the left’s unrelenting quests to make punishments for criminals hardly punishments at all, and the Louisiana Republican commented in a way that only he’s capable of.

Appearing on Fox News’s “Jesse Watters Primetime,” the discussion revolved around Democrats creating policies that allow for everyone from thieves to murderers to go free and commit these heinous crimes again.

Watters asked Kennedy what his take on the cushiness of the prison system was. Kennedy didn’t skip a beat.

“I would rather be forced to listen to O.J. jokes for the rest of eternity than to take the advice of President Biden or Governor Newsom. They are both nauseously woke.”

Kennedy noted that those who take part in woke culture believe that the criminal is actually the victim in almost any given case, and that “wokers” aren’t willing to accept responsibility for anything, choosing to blame all their misfortunes and society’s ills on everyone else.

“Their motto is, ‘Hear no evil, see no evil, prosecute no evil,’” he added.

“Now, fortunately, most Americans, at least those who have the IQ above a sloth understand that’s not the way the real world works,” Kennedy continued. “There are some people in our society, Jesse, who are not sick, they are not confused. They are not mixed up. It’s not that their momma or daddy didn’t love them enough. They are just bad.”

“And that’s why we have to have prisons,” he said. “And with respect to those people who say, ‘Oh my gosh, I’m in prison, isn’t this terrible?’ I would say, ‘Look, if you don’t want to go to prison, don’t do illegal stuff.’ But the corollary to that is, what you allow is what will continue.”

This is the “jaundiced view of reality” that Kennedy says both President Joe Biden and California Governor Gavin Newsom have adopted. Moreover, Kennedy noted that many Democrat Senators understand the people’s anger about this lack of punishment for criminals, leading to a decrease in law and order, but they won’t do anything out of fear of woke culture coming for them.

“What you allow is what will continue. And as long as we allow this, the criminals are not going to be unhappy with this. And they are going to keep committing crimes,” said Kennedy.

The proof in what Kennedy is saying is written in blood all over the walls in many cities. Violent criminals roam free, including those who assault police officers, until they murder someone. Democrats consistently pretend that the spike isn’t their fault, but there are marked differences in cities that defunded police under the Democrat party’s direction such as New York, which saw its murder rates skyrocket after woke policies were enforced.

Soft on crime policies are getting people killed. Bottom line.

As Kennedy said, what we allow is what will continue, and Democrat politicians are allowing this murder spree to continue.