The Holocaust is such a holy subject that even questioning what exactly motivated it is verboten. You can parrot almost all of the talking points about how terrible it was that six million jews were gassed, baked in ovens, and turned into lampshades and soap, but if you don’t toe the line about why jews were targeted, all hell will break loose.

This is what recently happened to anti-White actress Whoopi Goldberg after she said the Holocaust was not about race, because she erroneously argues that jews and gypsies are both White, but that it is more about man’s inhumanity to man. This was enough to set off a storm of kvetching, and Whoopi was forced to apologize.

The apology was not enough and now she has been suspended from the View.

Eager to jump on their leftist enemy, many right wing shills have been talking about how horrible it was for Whoopi to diminish the sacred Shoah.

In an article titled Cancel Culture Attack on Holocaust Backfires, Larry Johnson of The Gateway Pundit first brings up the recent banning of Maus, which was over the lewd material in the book (created by the same jew who came out the Garbage Pail Kids), and had nothing to do with people trying to censor the official Holcaust narrative.

The Holocaust is back in the news thanks to the stupid commentary of Whoopi Goldberg and the actions of a weak-minded school board in Tennessee. Let’s start with the McMinn County School Board, which voted unanimously on Jan. 10 to remove Art Spiegelman’s book, “Maus,” from classrooms. What is Maus? It is a comic book but it is not funny: […] The extermination camps the Nazis set up in Poland–Auschwitz/Birkenau, Belzac, Chelmno, Majdanek, Sobibor and Treblinka–were charnel houses of pure horror created for the express purpose of exterminating Jews, gypsies, homosexuals and other undesirables. But Jews were the primary target. The McMinn County School Board proved themselves to be a clot of juvenile morons. They failed to comprehend that if you are going to teach about the Holocaust you cannot whitewash it or turn it into a Disney musical. Human beings were tortured and murdered because they were Jews. They were stripped naked and incinerated into ash after suffocating in gas chambers. There is no easy way to tell this tale.

He then goes on to talk about how great it is that the ban backfired and the sales of Maus are through the roof now. The he turns to Whoopi.

Which brings me to Whoopi Goldberg. Who knew she was such a cretin. She weighed in on the action of the McMinn School Board with this incredibly stupid comment: [… he quotes her] It absolutely was racial. In Whoopi’s simple world, skin color is the deciding factor. But the Nazis did not make eliminating people with black or dark skin their priority. Jews were the enemy and determining who was and was not a Jew involved genetic sleuthing…

The Gateway Pundit is just another controlled opposition site trying to keep people invested in the false narrative of the Holocaust, and labeling the left as the REAL Nazis.

Joining in the chorus of voices denouncing the supposed diminishing of the Holocaust are popular right wingers.

Tim Pool weighs in on Whoopi “taking wokeness to an insane extreme”:

PragerU had to get their “hot take” in:

The Quartering had to make Whoopi look like a “Nazi”:

Of course Fox News has been denouncing Whoopi:

An angry black man at Fox News lets her have it:

The Podcast of the Lotus Eaters:

Of course David Rubin had to talk about the semitic scandal.

I am sure there are many more that I could find. These are just the ones that I could pull from Bitchute. Right wingers are falling over themselves to score points against this “leftist” while at the same time acting outraged about anyone questioning any aspect of the Holocaust.

I think Whoopi Goldberg is a terrible human being, especially because of her anti-White rhetoric, but I could care less about her slightly different take on why she thinks 6 million jews were sent to the showers. At the end of the day, she is still just re-affirming the same lies we have been fed since the Holocaust was invented.

Hopefully this whole “scandal” will show regular people just how much power jews have and what happens to anyone who even slightly offends them. jews, the most “powerful” race of people in the entire world, also need to act like the biggest victims.