Lawmakers’ plan would let patients buy despite FDA warnings

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has posted pages of detailed information online about “Why you should not use ivermectin to treat or prevent COVID-19.”

The federal agency insists it’s dangerous, even though it’s been prescribed for years for various parasitic ailments, and the FDA warns overdosing on it can cause “nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hypotension (low blood pressure), allergic reactions (itching and hives), dizziness, ataxia (problems with balance), seizures, coma and even death.”

That’s even though Dr. Theresa Lawrie, a U.K. medical doctor and research analyst who founded the British Ivermectin Recommendation Development initiative (BiRD International) suggested it has significant benefits against contracting, or dying from, COVID-19.

Now, a report confirms officials in one state are trying to make it easier for consumers to obtain, even though the FDA stands by its dire warnings.

The report said lawmakers in New Hampshire are working on legislation that would give consumers access to the treatment through ordinary procedures at a pharmacy.

House Bill 1022 would allow pharmacists to dispense the drug by means of standing orders, the report said.

Newsweek said the plan is to let pharmacists dispense the treatment under the “delegated prescriptive authority of the physician” and more.

The report noted, “The pharmacist would also be required to provide any patients who receive ivermectin with a ‘standardized information sheet written in plain language’ that provides health care referral information and notes the importance of follow-up care.”

And the lawmakers are proposing that, “Nothing on the information sheet shall discourage the recipient from using ivermectin for the treatment of COVID-19.”

Newsweek noted, “Republican State Rep. Leah Cushman, a sponsor of the bill and registered nurse, told Newsweek that she wanted to make sure residents of the state ‘have options for treatment of COVID-19.’ She also said that the burden of the virus on hospitals needs to be curbed, ‘and right now there are no early treatments being offered by most doctors.'”