As with most agendas being perpetrated on human beings, those who manufactured the alleged “crisis” are those profiting from it, and some of these globalists are so slick, they can sell ice cubes to eskimos. Parts 1-5 of this 9-part series revealed the Social Emotional Learning PreK-Adult obedience training being instilled through the education system and beyond, many who are involved, and just how far along this psychological agenda is. Part 6 explains the human capital aspect, and shows the private sector funding that has been pumped into this agenda to train the obedient future workforce. This global agenda is already operating in 110 countries and billions are pouring into it.

READ:

 Part 1: Introduction

 Part 2: The Programming

 Part 3: Spirituality in Education Programming

 Part 4: WEF Vision for Global Education System

 Part 5: U.S. Department of Education & Multiple Agencies Involved

“An emerging understanding of brain development has revealed a remarkable period of elasticity during adolescence — nearly a second infancy, and a second chance on rapid change to that support a thriving adulthood.” – call to action by Carnegie Corporation of New York

Everything the globalists pour money into is self-serving, despite their efforts to manipulate people into believing they do everything for the good of mankind. This particular agenda is no different. They are “investing” in “changing” the minds of children (and parents) to control all aspects of their characteristics and behavior, thinking, emotions, and beliefs so they can mold them to be their future workforce in a digital world where everyone’s moves, access, behavior, words, and spending is all tracked through blockchain and a social scoring system they’ve long been building.

According to researchers at Columbia University, in 2015 they determined that SEL programs have a strong return on investment (ROI) over long periods of time, stating that the programs generated an average return of $11 per $1 invested. Here is the full which was funded by the NoVo Foundation, a foundation that is controlled by Peter Buffet with the initial donation from his father Warren of 350,000 shares (valued at $1 million) of Berkshire Hathaway.

Those involved in furthering this agenda, insist that “character” is what is most important when it comes to school, career, and life success, and under the guise of the need to change ones “character” they advocate for policy change to promote social and economic change. Whereas ones “character” certainly plays an important role in life, these folks want to bend it to their benefit.

According to Professor James J. Heckman, “Starting early gives a greater return. Investment in high-quality, early childhood development from birth – it makes dollars and sense.” Heckman has served as the Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, where he directs the Economics Research Center and the Center for the Economics of Human Development, since 1973. It’s no coincidence that CASEL (co-founded by Eileen Rockefeller Growald) is based out of Chicago, or that the Rockefellers have deep ties in Chicago, including the fact that John D. Rockefeller was the founder of the University of Chicago.

Much of Heckman’s work focuses on “models of individuals,” “lifecycle skill formation,” and early childhood development, all of which has had quite an influence on policymakers. His “Heckman Equation” project was funded by the Pritzker Children’s Institute and the Buffet Early Childhood Fund. Neither is surprising, with both having ties to this overall agenda. As noted above, NoVo funded the ROI study on SEL programs, at the request of CASEL.

As documented in part 3 of this series, the Lisa and John Pritzker Family Fund donated $300,000 to the Center for Healthy Minds to advance its research on cultivating well-being and relieve suffering. They cultivate this “well-being” through smartphone apps that “train brains,” with projects funded by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, NIH, NCCIH, and NIMH (who also funds CASEL). In 2017, J.B. Pritzker and Heckman wrote an op-ed for The Hill, urging the new administration to subsidize early childhood education from birth to age three, and expand access to preschool starting at age four. They’ve spent decades trying to break apart the family unit, so they could use the “single mom” card for their agendas.

What is the Heckman Equation project? They sum it up as “invest, develop, sustain, and gain.” They want to invest in early human development of cognitive and social skills from birth to age five, sustain it through education all the way up through adulthood, and “gain a more capable, productive and valuable workforce that pays dividends to America for generations to come.”

They argue that they need to get them while they’re young because “skills developed through quality early childhood education last for a lifetime.” Though they want big investments toward preschool, they are eager to get their hands on them at birth, indicating that their research shows that birth-to-five high-quality education will provide a higher “rate of return” than preschool alone, with a 13% ROI. They claim that this return on investment will mean better life outcomes, better health, quality of life, less crime, higher IQ, better employment, and an “increase in mother’s labor income as a result of subsidized childcare.”

The 13% ROI is based on two preschool experiments (ABC/CARE) conducted in North Carolina in the 1970’s, which provided comprehensive developmental resources with access to nutrition, health care and early learning, to disadvantaged African-American children from birth to age five. This entailed creating a treatment group and control group in which some received the high quality treatment, while others utilized “low quality alternative childcare centers or in-home care.” Their accumulated research involved data that was collected from birth until age 8, on cognitive and socio-emotional skills, home environments, family structure, and family economic characteristics. ABC/CARE provided childcare to the parents of the “treated” group for more than nine hours a day for five years. After age 8, they continued to collect data on cognitive and socio-emotional skills, education, and family economic characteristics at ages 12, 15, 21, and 30, with a full medical survey and detailed criminal activity at age 35.

Based on those studies, Heckman argues that it is a relevant study today, and that the negative effects of a disadvantaged early childhood are similar across races. The study states that treatment had significantly better life outcomes than those who stayed at home or who enrolled in low quality childcare centers. This study is all about separating the children from their mother at birth and getting them into programs that align with their overall agenda. Just imagine 9 hours of programming in children, every day for five long years.

While Heckman and this study may refer to it as “disadvantaged early childhood,” they want this system in place for ALL children, which is evident by the $400 billion free preschool for ALL, stuffed in the Build Back Better Bill they want passed. It’s no different than the claim of “poor people across the world don’t have a digital ID, therefore we ALL need digital IDs,” or “4.5% of the population identify as LGBTQ, therefore we all need to assign ourselves new pronouns,” or “some people don’t have access to internet in poor countries, therefore every child in the entire world needs to be plugged into the internet.” See their game?

They speak their intentions in plain language. Read it exactly as is stated, then consider who is funding it:

“ABC/CARE improved the economic prospects of treated children and their mothers, allowing the latter to enter the workforce and increase earnings while their children gained the foundational skills to make them more productive in the .”

Below are some of the biggest private sector funders and supporters driving this agenda, who play an instrumental role in the promotion, research, policymaking, and profiting. This is by no means a complete list of those funding and supporting this obedience training and brainwashing agenda, but are coincidentally some of the same billionaire philanthropists profiting from the Covid agenda, vaccine industry, climate change, and other facets of the UN 2030 agenda they are all a part of.

Billions in state and federal grants are covered under the legislation section in part 7 of this report, which also directly links to the players in this chapter because of their influence over legislatures on policy making.

In addition to their vital role in funding CASEL and working with the Fetzer Institute through their Collaborative for Spirituality in Education, which was covered extensively in part 3, they are also funding the Collaborative Districts Initiative (CDI), which was launched in 2011 by the NoVo Foundation (Buffet) and CASEL (Rockefeller), to get school districts across the country implementing SEL, and are likely trying to get the “spiritual education” into it at the same time.

They are also involved with and funding The International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity which was created in 2015, and is located in New York, just a 2-min walk from Rockefeller Center.

This commission was allegedly co-convened in 2015 by the Prime Minister of Norway, the Presidents of Malawi, Indonesia, and Chile, and the Director-General of UNESCO. It is chaired by the United Nations Special Envoy for Global Education, Gordon Brown, and supported by 26 high-level commissioners consisting of former heads of state and government and leaders in various fields, including former World Bank president Jim Yong Kim, Jack Ma, and Lawrence Summers, all of whom Corey’s Digs has reported on extensively, and all have deep ties with the Clintons as well.

Their commission has more than 300 partners in 105 countries, with a primary focus on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 4:

Essentially, they gather the funds, and convince and coerce world leaders and policymakers to carry out and enforce their stated agendas, just as with every other agenda these same folks orchestrate.

They have established the International Finance Facility for Education (IFFEd) as a financing engine for lower-middle income countries, or as they put it, 80% of the world’s children. They are utilizing catalytic grants and guarantees, and multiple donor resources by a factor up to four.

UNICEF assessed that they will need to secure $474.5 billion to scale up the use of EdTech, of which $428 billion is for connecting every learner to the internet, as well as an additional $498 billion to make data usage affordable for all.

Following suit with the World Economic Forum’s white paper on ‘New Vision for Education: Fostering Social and Emotional Learning through Technology’ (covered in part 4), they have produced a working paper titled ‘Financing for the EdTech Ecosystem,’ whereby they reference the WEF paper. Of course, Covid-19 was once again the frontrunner for why wiring kids into technology is so critical. Much of the language used throughout this report is identical to the WEF’s. They are determined to build their blockchain of digital global citizens while “training brains” through apps.

In 2016, they produced a report titled ‘The Learning Generation: Investing in education for a changing world,’ which is an action plan to finance and expand education to 260 million children who are not in school. They state their intentions are to diversify the education workforce, mobilize more and better finance, strengthen delivery mechanisms, and transform learning. In this report, they make clear that the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity was formed to…

“Summon the best evidence necessary to inform what we present today: an agenda for action that will add up to the largest expansion of educational opportunity in modern history.”

This isn’t the only endeavor UNESCO is involved in when it comes to SEL. They have also teamed up with the World Bank and UNICEF on other projects to move this agenda along, as documented in part 4. The World Bank published ‘Learning and Resilience: The Crucial Role of Social and Emotional Well-being in Contexts of Adversity’ as far back as 2013, with special emphasis on communities and families being involved in the learning process and delivery of SEL, and how to “operationalize” SEL programming by embedding the delivery of its psychosocial activities into the education system.

The Fetzer Institute funds both CASEL and Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, in addition to numerous education-related studies with disturbing criteria, and are partners with Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors in the Collaborative for Spirituality in Education. This, along with all of their funding was covered in Part 3.

In October 2010, CASEL, with the University of Illinois at Chicago Social and Emotional Learning Research Group, published “Compendium of Preschool Through Elementary School: Social-Emotional Learning and Associated Assessment Measures,” funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Kirlin Charitable Foundation, the NoVo Foundation, the Rauner Family Foundation, and the University of Illinois at Chicago.

In 2016, The Aspen Institute created the National Commission on Social, Emotional, and Academic Development (NCSEAD) with $871,680 in funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for its creation, which was also funded by the Carnegie Corporation.

In October 2018, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation funded CASEL $550,000 for the sole purpose of Rockefeller–co-founded–CASEL maintaining their “highest leverage role” of the SEL agenda:

In January, 2019 The Aspen Institute’s National Commission on Social, Emotional, & Academic Development released their recommendations for the new vision on the education system and how policymakers can make this change – “From A Nation At Risk To A Nation At Hope.”

Between 2016-2021, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have funded over $25 million specifically for “social and emotional learning” programs, but the first grant was in November 2007 in the amount of $125,000 to the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois to “support research strategies for the social, emotional, and academic learning of preschool and elementary school students.” This likely funded the work being done in conjunction with CASEL to get SEL further off the ground and into schools.