Things are getting ugly. The Hershey Company has started firing all un”vaccinated” employees. Those who continue to refuse to be injected with mRNA gene therapy shots are also being asked to sign a nine-page confidentiality and release agreement that would remove their rights to sue the company or talk about their experience – after they’ve been canned.

You cannot make this stuff! If Hershey actually thought they were doing the right thing, what’s with the nine-page confidentiality and release agreement they are demanding be signed? Signing this agreement comes with a “special separation payment.” Many have not signed the agreement and won’t get the money. Employees say the payment was determined by an algorithm and for some, amounted to just over two months’ pay.

The separation agreement Hershey gave employees prohibits those who sign it from disclosing the existence, terms, and conditions of the agreement, including the details of their separation from employment. The agreement contains a broad non-disparagement clause and it also releases Hershey from liability for all legally waivable claims. – ZeroHedge

While office workers must be vaccinated or fired, employees working in food production and Chocolate World, the company’s retail outlet stores, are encouraged but not required to get the vaccination, according to a report by ZeroHedge.

It seems incredibly hypocritical to fire un”vaccinated” employees while pushing products that are known to cause diabetes and obesity.

Employees have estimated 1,400 workers applied for a religious exemption because the company will not comment on the issue. It is unknown if any were granted, however, others have already admitted they were denied an exemption. Anyone thinking these exemptions would save them was naive at best. The rulers have no intention of giving you an exemption when were have already been told that these shots are mandatory for their agenda of permanent slavery to go forward.

The Ruling Class Will Monitor The Use Of “Vaccine Exemptions”

Ruling Class: The Scamdemic Won’t End Until The WHOLE WORLD Is Vaccinated