President Joe Biden has approved the deployment of thousands more US troops to Poland and Germany in the coming days amid fears Russia will invade Ukraine.

Some 2,000 will be sent from America to Poland and Germany, while the US will also reposition part of an infantry squadron of around 1,000 who are currently in Germany to Romania.

The Pentagon has also put about 8,500 US-based troops on higher alert for possible deployment to Europe as extra reassurance to allies.

Mr Biden has said he will not put American soldiers in Ukraine to fight any Russian incursion, although the US is supplying Ukraine with weapons to defend itself.

Announcing the deployment, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said: "I want to be very clear about something: these are not permanent moves... Moreover, these forces are not going to fight in Ukraine.

"They are going to ensure the robust defence of our NATO allies."

Reuters reported a source as saying 1,700 forces would deploy from Fort Bragg in North Carolina to Poland, and another 300 from the base to Germany.

It comes amid stalled talks with Russia over its military build-up at Ukraine's borders.

The deployment underscores growing fears across Europe that Russian President Vladimir Putin will order an invasion of Ukraine - and smaller NATO countries on the eastern flank worry they could be next.

After weeks of talking and attempts to find a diplomatic solution to this evolving crisis, President Biden’s decision to deploy troops suggests tensions are escalating, rather than cooling. The US is keen to reinforce that these troops are not being sent to Ukraine and they’re not being sent to fight – for now – but this is a ratcheting up of the military preparedness to fend off Russian aggression. It is a move designed to reassure Ukraine and Eastern European allies who are nervous about the growing numbers of Russian troops on their borders. But it also sends a message to Russian President Putin and the Kremlin that the US is ready to fight and, crucially, at short notice and with limited warning. Only yesterday President Putin, speaking publicly for the first time since December, suggested he was willing to remain around the negotiating table but this military move by the US suggests a diplomatic resolution is not near.

Satellite images emerged earlier today that reveal a build-up of Russia's military presence in Crimea and western Russia.

The pictures show an increase in tents designed to accommodate troops at a number of Russian bases.

Previous satellite images showed Russia has been deploying large equipment, such as military vehicles, to their bases - but the latest pictures are the first of their kind to show extra troops were also being sent to camps near or within Ukraine's border.

The US troop deployment comes as Boris Johnson prepares to speak to Mr Putin in an effort to cool tensions over Ukraine - and after one of Russia's top diplomats said he did not trust British diplomacy.

Russia's deputy UN ambassador, Dmitry Polyanskiy, told Sky News: "There is always room for diplomacy, but frankly, we don't trust British diplomacy. I think in recent years British diplomacy has shown that it is absolutely worthless.

"I really don't want to offend anybody, especially my good friends, British diplomats, but really, the results are nothing to boast about."

Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, said Russia branding British diplomacy as "worthless" was the "best compliment" the UK could receive from Moscow.

In response to a question about Western diplomacy asked by Adam Parsons of Sky News, he added: "I have full trust in our capacity to defend the country. I have full trust in some of our partners and the United Kingdom is one of them.

"A difficult situation cannot be solved without making difficult decisions - and whatever the price of deterrence is, the price of stopping the war will be much higher."

"What is happening in Ukraine now is important" for the whole of Europe, he added.

However, the Spanish daily El Pais has published two documents purported to be written replies from the US and NATO last week to Russia's proposals for a new security arrangement in Europe.

Marked as a confidential "non-paper," the US document said the country would be willing to discuss in consultation with its NATO partners "a transparency mechanism to confirm the absences of Tomahawk cruise missiles" at sites in Romania and Poland.

The US has yet to confirm whether the document is authentic.

The discussions would only happen if Russia "offers reciprocal transparency measures on two ground-launched missiles bases of our choosing in Russia", according to the document.

NATO declined to comment, but the text of the purported document from the 30-nation military organisation closely reflects statements made by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg as he laid out the pact's position on Russia's demands.