Michael Gove has said the government's "landmark" plan for levelling up the country will improve the lives of those outside London and the South East.

Speaking in the Commons as the government's 332-page Levelling Up White Paper was published, the levelling up secretary said ministers will aim to hit 12 "levelling up missions" by 2030 in order to "change the economic model of this county".

Mr Gove said the strategy will "allow overlooked and undervalued communities to take back control of their destiny".

"The White Paper we are publishing today sets out a detailed strategy to make opportunity more equal and to shift wealth and power decisively towards working people and their families," he said.

"After two long COVID years, we need to get this country moving at top speed again. We need faster growth, quicker public services and higher wages and we need to allow overlooked and undervalued communities to take back control of their destiny.

"Because we know that while talent is spread equally across the United Kingdom, opportunity is not."

Earlier on Wednesday, the levelling up secretary told Kay Burley that people in the North and the Midlands have been "overlooked and undervalued for years by politicians" and that the government's blueprint will bring prosperity "to all parts" of the UK.

Meanwhile, in a foreword to the document, Boris Johnson has said the government's Levelling Up White Paper will drive up prosperity across the UK.

The PM said it was the "most comprehensive, ambitious plan of its kind that this country has ever seen".

Analysis: voters will now be able to judge whether levelling up has been delivered Boris Johnson has described it as the central mission of his premiership, he's given a major speech on it, he's even created a brand new government department dedicated to it - but for all emphasis, the term "levelling up" is often met with blank faces. Analysis by the Centre for Cities carried out last autumn found 53% of voters in the so-called 'red wall seats' that went from Labour to the Conservatives in 2019 did not know what the policy was. Indeed it's become so notorious for its ambiguity that ministers have used that lack of clear definition as a hook in social media posts - describing what levelling up means to them and their department. The white paper published today goes further than anything before it to offer a definition: breaking it down into "12 missions" that aim to tackle different aspects of geographical inequality in the UK. Some are more detailed than others, but for the first time there is a list of clear targets against which the government will ultimately be judged: not only will voters now be able to see what levelling up actually is, they'll be able to know whether or not it has been delivered.

But shadow levelling up secretary Lisa Nandy questioned: "Seriously, is this it?".

The Labour minister also accused ministers of "scurrying around Whitehall shuffling the deckchairs, cobbling together a shopping list of recycled policies and fiddling the figures".

Describing the Levelling Up White Paper as "smoke and mirrors", Ms Nandy continued: "They have given more to fraudsters than they've given to the north of England."

She added: "He talks about 12 missions, this is 12 admissions of failure."

In the Conservatives' 2019 general election-winning manifesto, the party said its focus would be "levelling up every part of the UK" and the term has since become a key slogan for Boris Johnson's government.

The prime minister has said the term involves investing in towns, cities and rural and coastal areas, using apprenticeships to balance out skills, giving areas more control over investment and creating new freeports.

But Labour's Lisa Nandy told Sky News there is "no new money" behind the government's announcements.

"What we've got is a series of rehashed announcements, some of which are so old they were actually originally made by Gordon Brown when he was Labour prime minister in 2008," the shadow levelling up secretary told Kay Burley.

Chief Secretary to the Treasury Simon Clarke later said the government had committed a fresh £150 billion across all departments.

What is the Levelling Up White Paper?

The government's levelling up agenda has been continually delayed and some of the new Conservative MPs, who won 'Red Wall' seats traditionally held by Labour in the 2019 election, have been pressuring the prime minister for urgent action.

Writing for the Times Red Box, Conservative mayor for Tees Valley, Ben Houchen, recently called for "visible signs" of action if the PM wants to retain the electorate's support.

Read more: Why Boris Johnson's levelling-up agenda could be doomed to fail

The Levelling Up White Paper includes "12 bold national levelling up missions" which it says "will shift government focus and resources to Britain's forgotten communities by 2030".

These national aims range from improving public transport to ensuring access to 5G broadband .

The missions will be given status in law through the Levelling Up and Regeneration Bill and officials say the plans will see the "biggest shift of power from Whitehall to local leaders in modern times".

What are the twelve levelling up missions?
• Pay, employment and productivity to have risen in every area of the UK by 2030 with the gap between the top performing and other areas closing
• Investment in Research and Development to increase by 40% across the North, Midlands, South West, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland
• Local public transport connectivity across the country to be significantly closer to the standards of London with improved services, simpler fares and integrated ticketing
• UK to have nationwide gigabit-capable broadband and 4G coverage by 2030 - with 5G coverage for the majority
• Number of primary school children achieving the expected standard in reading, writing and maths will have significantly increased to 90%
• Number of people successfully completing high-quality skills training will have significantly increased in every area of the UK
• By 2030, the gap in Healthy Life Expectancy (HLE) between local areas where it is highest and lowest will have narrowed, and by 2035 HLE will rise by five years
• Well-being will have improved in every area of the UK, with the gap between top performing and other areas closing
• Pride in place, such as people's satisfaction with their town centre and engagement in local culture and community, will have risen in every area of the UK
• Renters will have a secure path to ownership with the number of first-time buyers increasing in all areas
• By 2030, homicide, serious violence, and neighbourhood crime will have fallen, focused on the worst-affected areas
• Every part of England that wants one will have a devolution deal with powers at or approaching the highest level of devolution and a simplified, long-term funding settlement

The government says it will "do whatever it can to achieve these missions" and that "resources, energy, and focus throughout the 2020s will be re-oriented around achieving them".

The Northern Research Group of Conservative MPs welcomed the Government's "ambitions".

But Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the white paper is a "set of repackaged, rehashed and recycled 'announcements'" which is "another sign the Conservatives are out of ideas and out of energy".

While the SNP's constitution spokesman Tommy Sheppard said the government's Levelling Up White Paper is "frankly insulting".

However, Tracy Brabin, Labour mayor of West Yorkshire, said there is "lots to be pleased about" in the plan - but noted that "the devil is going to be in the detail".