Joe Rogan has been branded as "dangerous" by actress Sharon Stone, adding that he is "risking people's lives with his idiocy" as the backlash against his podcast continues.

Rogan, who has an exclusive deal with Spotify thought to be worth millions, has been criticised in recent weeks by musicians and other celebrities, who have accused him of spreading misinformation about COVID and vaccines.

Neil Young and Joni Mitchell are among the artists to have pulled their music from the platform in opposition to Rogan's comments.

Joe Rogan and Spotify: Who is the US podcaster and what is the COVID misinformation row all about?

In response, Spotify said it would add content advisories to any podcast episodes that discuss the pandemic, but Stone says instead it should be warning people that Rogan is an "a******" instead.

Speaking to TMZ, the Total Recall actress said that Rogan's behaviour was "dangerous".

She added: "COVID is not an opinion-based situation and Mr Rogan thinking that his opinion or disclaimer for the lives he personally has affected and caused losses of - it's not an opinion.

"Mr Rogan is risking people's lives with his idiocy and his professing that his thoughts about COVID are opinions.

"Infectious diseases are science, and they are fact-based situations, so the pretence that these are opinions is dangerous.

"He should put a disclaimer that he's an a****** and that his behaviour is dangerous and affecting people's lives and deaths."

Latest COVID updates from the UK and around the world

Despite the backlash, Rogan has received support following his commitment to invite wider views on to his podcast, with Dwayne Johnson and Kat Von D among those responding positively.

Johnson commented, saying: "Great stuff here, brother. Perfectly articulated. Look forward to coming on one day and breaking out the tequila with you."

Kevin James, a comedy actor known for Paul Blart: Mall Cop, added: "Joe - we go way back and all these years I've known you to be nothing but objective and seeking truth. Thank you. Love you brother."