Sir Keir Starmer has accused Boris Johnson of using the "conspiracy theories of violent fascists" to score political points as the pair clashed at Prime Minister's Questions.

The Labour leader criticised the prime minister in the Commons on Wednesday over his use of the discredited claim that Sir Keir failed to prosecute sex offender Jimmy Savile when he was director of public prosecutions.

Mr Johnson made the original remark in exchanges with Sir Keir on Monday as he faced MPs in the wake of the release of a partial version of Sue Gray's partygate report.

Victims of Savile, who is believed to be one of Britain's most prolific sex offenders, have urged the PM to withdraw the claim.

Savile died in 2011, having never been brought to justice for his crimes.

A 2016 report into his abuse found staff at the BBC missed numerous chances to stop him.

Raising the matter at PMQs, Sir Keir said: "I just want to say to the members opposite, theirs is the party of Winston Churchill.

"Our parties stood together as we defeated fascism in Europe. Now their leader stands in the House of Commons parroting the conspiracy theories of violent fascists to try and score cheap political points.

He knows exactly what he is doing, it is time to restore some dignity."

Mr Johnson replied: "On his first point, I don't want to make heavy weather of this but I am told that in 2013, he apologised and took full responsibility for what had happened on his watch.

"I think that was the right thing to do."

In 2020, fact-checking charity Full Fact looked into the claim Sir Keir had stopped Savile being charged in 2009, when Sir Keir was head of the CPS.

It said the decision not to prosecute Savile was made on the grounds of "insufficient evidence", with the allegations against the DJ dealt with by local police and a reviewing lawyer for the CPS.

"A later investigation criticised the actions of both the CPS and the police in their handling of the situation," Full Fact found.

"It did not suggest that Mr Starmer was personally involved in the decisions made."

Mr Johnson's spokesman has previously said he "stands by" the comments - and in the aftermath of PMQs asserted that Sir Keir's apology was a "matter of public record".

Speaking to Sky News on Tuesday, Sir Keir described it as a "ridiculous slur peddled by right-wing trolls" and he could see the "disgust" on the faces of Conservative MPs behind Mr Johnson as he made the accusation.

"They knew that he was going so low with that slur, with that lie - he had been advised not to do it because it's obviously not true, but he does it because he doesn't understand what honesty and integrity means," Sir Keir said.

And shadow levelling up secretary Lisa Nandy earlier told Sky News she was "absolutely disgusted" with the PM, describing the comments as a "new low" for him.

She said: "The idea that you would throw lies and mud around in the hope that it would deflect from your own behaviour and your own political problems. And use child abuse victims and survivors as pawns in that game.

"I think this is a new low from the PM and something that I would never have expected to see from the PM of the UK."

Some Conservative MPs have also criticised the PM for his comments.

Simon Hoare, chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee, said the "false allegation" should be withdrawn.

Tobias Ellwood, who told Sky News he will be submitting a letter of no confidence in Mr Johnson, questioned why the PM made such a remark.

"We're better than this, we must seek to improve our standards and rise above where we are today," he told Kay Burley.

Gove says PM doesn't need to apologise

Also speaking to Sky News on Wednesday, Michael Gove said Mr Johnson had nothing to apologise for.

"I listen with enormous respect to those who act for victims of the actions of a terrible, terrible criminal," the levelling up secretary said.

"But, and it's not a subject that I want to dwell on because it is uniquely sensitive, but it is a case that the CPS apologised for the handling of this case and what happened in 2009.

"I think we should acknowledge an apology was given at the time out of respect."