forcing Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to skulk off punkishly under cover of night — after bad-mouthing the big-rig invaders as "a fringe minority" in a nation of otherwise obedient hypnotics sleepwalking into Big Pharma's spike-protein fun-factory of all-causes early death.of course. Canada's leading paper, The Toronto Star, put up a peevish little item complaining that a protester hung an upside-down maple leaf flag on a statue of national hero Terry Fox (a cancer-stricken athlete who ran across most of the country on a prosthetic leg in 1981 to raise cancer-awareness). The paper also mentioned that "[a] discordant symphony of truck horns blared across downtown Ottawa as demonstrators geared up for their second full day on local streets."with the population compliantly following all the insane, economy-wrecking rules, until a recent mandate to vaxx-up every last trucker in the land finally sparked-off a revolt. Mr. Trudeau's Liberal Party failed to win a parliamentary majority in last September's federal election, and he heads a flimsy coalition potentially facing a no-confidence vote that would drive the PM out of office.For now, the truckers seem determined to stick around and disrupt the Canadian capital.So far, the local Ottawa police have stood by with a very light hand, and there are rumors that they are on the same page as the truckers against federal overreach.Will Mr. Trudeau resort to using the military to break up the revolt? Good luck with that.Then what? Throw them all in jail? How will that help move stuff from Point A to Point B? It kind of looks like they have Mr. T over a Molson barrel. For now, it's a stand-off, but it looks to me like theand whoever takes charge next will have to rapidly rethink the country's entire Covid-19 policy in a not-insane direction.— the swampy pivot-point of Covid tyranny under the phantasm known as "Joe Biden" — as a very general way of saying we've had enough of being pushed around by political grifters and their bureaucratic subalterns.while the official alibis, cover-stories, and disinfo ops bend ever deeper toward an arc of criminality.In fact, a conscientious observer would have to conclude the following:Let the trucks roll from Fresno to DC if they still want to play rough. Think the "Joe Biden" gang will try to divert attention by starting a war in Ukraine?Think the financial markets will tank?("Let's Go, Brandon!") And Let's go, Canadian truckers!