The end of the Cold War with the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the end of the Soviet Union two years later presented the United States with a choice: triumphalism or reconciliation.There was hope of a "peace dividend" because the fortune spent on armaments for so long could now be spent on domestic needs.Rather its expansion has become a flashpoint in the current standoff over Ukraine.To assent to the reunification of Germany, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev ultimately agreed to a proposal from then U.S. Secretary of State James Baker thatthat is, absorb any of the former Warsaw Pact nations into NATO.On Feb. 9, 1990, Baker said On the next day, then German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said : "We consider that NATO should not enlarge its sphere of activity."For years it was believed there was no written record of the Baker-Gorbachev exchange at all, until theThe archive reported:One Jan. 31, 1990 cable from the U.S. embassy in Bonn informed Washington that German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher's speech that day made clearOn Tuesday, The New Yorker magazine published a detailed analysis of what transpired at that time. The piece reveals that H.W. Bush "strongly opposed Baker's proposal [with Gorbachev], which was quickly abandoned."Even then Russian President Boris Yeltsin, the piece says, eventually rejected NATO expansion, but not after first agreeing to it after Lech Walesa plied him with drinks:and that no NATO expansion eastward was ever promised. The New Yorker reported:NATO was set up in 1949 as a 12-nation military alliance against the hyped fear of an invasion of Western Europe by a devastated Soviet Union. In the 1950s, Greece, Turkey and Germany joined, and Spain in 1982, bringing the total of members to 16.The "peace dividend" had turned into an expansion payoff, as arms contractors lobbied hard for these new NATO members to be accepted, as The New York Times reported in 1998.As the NATO expansion debate was playing out, Jimmy Carter's former national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, who still wielded influence in Washington, wrote a piece in 1995 for Foreign Affairs, entitledin which he said:Ever focused on control of Eurasia, Brzezinski appeared to favor post-Soviet Russia drawing closer to Europe as opposed to Eurasia. He wrote:Brzezinski worried what Moscow's reaction would be if it were eventually denied an offer to join NATO:According to a 2014 article in Foreign Affairs:Gorbachev told Baker in May, according to Soviet records., replying dismissively, 'Pan-European security is a dream.'"Brzezinski urged that an announcement of expansion be made quickly, with the details to be worked out later.Brzezinski called foron the last day of 1999 after Wall Street and Washington had had dominant influence over Yeltsin's post-Soviet Russia.reaching new peaks with Russiagate (despite it having been proven false.) NATO forward deployments in Central Europe have been routine for years and are growing by the day in the midst of the current crisis.Brzezinski, however, put a huge caveat in his understanding of Moscow's position, saying that "not all of Russia's concerns are legitimate — and the alliance should not shrink from making that known."He said the issue of NATO expansion calls forIn view of the current Russian demand for a treaty that would preclude Ukraine and Georgia joining NATO, Brzezinski said Russia does not have "the right" to "veto NATO expansion."Nevertheless,than the Biden administration today. He said theIt is difficult to fathom that the U.S. leaders in power in the 1990s would not understand future problems with Russia over this expansion, as even their man Yeltsin voiced concerns. They were confronted with those problems in Putin's 2007 Munich speech:Putin spoke three years after the Baltic States, former Soviet republics bordering on Russia, joined the Western Alliance. A year after his speech,which has not yet happened, but four more eastern European states joined in 2009.Since then NATO has held many military exercises Russia has found threatening.It said:In 2016, a 10-day maneuver was carried out in Poland with 31,000 NATO troops from 24 nations and thousands of tanks and other vehicles. The exercise was the first time German troops taking part crossed Poland towards Russia since the Nazi invasion of 1941.These moves led then German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier to accuse NATO of "saber-rattling" and "war-mongering." Steinmeier told Bild am Sontag newspaper:That year NATO also installed a missile base in Romania that can strike Russia, claiming it was only "defensive" against incoming missiles from Iran, though the weapons can also be used offensively. A similar missile base, previously canceled, is slated to be operational in Poland later this year.Six years after NATO promised Ukraine would one day become a member, the U.S. led a coup in Kiev that overthrew a democratically-elected president who leaned towards Moscow.In his 1997 book, The Grand Chessboard: American Primacy and Its Geostrategic Imperatives, he wrote:which still drives Washington,as Brzezinski argued,by pushing Russia out. What Brzezinski and U.S. leaders still view as Russia's "imperial ambitions" are in Moscow seen as imperative defensive measures against an aggressive West.Nearly 15 years after Putin's Munich speech, in which he began to draw the line with the West, Russia has had enough.The treaty proposal makes a clear reference to Ukraine, saying,As Western arms pour into Ukraine ostensibly to defend against the "invasion," but quite possibly to arm a Kiev offensive in the east,Last week, after talks with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Geneva, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said NATO "was set up against the Soviet Union and for some reason it still works against Russia."In the draft treaty with the U.S., Russia argues, among other points, that NATO's insistence that it can admit any member that it wantsthat the national security interests of one or more states parties should not threaten the security of another.The proposed treaty says:Often a bully will back down when finally challenged. But other times the bully, who's been falsely accusing his victim of being the aggressor, twists this challenge into a new opportunity to play the victim and go on the attack.Russia's troop deployments on its territory near Ukraine and its vow to resort to "technical-military" means is not seen publicly by the U.S. as a Russian negotiating tactic to pressure Washington to take its draft treaties seriously, but as an "imminent" threat of invasion.The U.S. portrays its talks this month with Russia not as an effort to create a new European security arrangement, which even Brzezinski had called for, but only to prevent a Russian invasion.The war mania being drummed up in U.S. and British media recallsIt is not a new trick.