The vile nastiness of The View coven was really pulsing on Thursday as the panel used Justice Stephen Breyer’s retirement announcement to lash out at Justices Clarence Thomas and Amy Coney Barrett. Together, they accused Thomas of being a race traitor and wasn’t the correct kind of black man to replace Justice Thurgood Marshall. With Coney Barrett, they used air quotes when noting she’s “a woman” and suggested she’s a traitor to women.

The bigotry was suffused throughout the entire segment. It first reared its ugly head when co-host Sunny Hostin suggested Thomas didn’t care about other black people:

HAINES: And of course, the representation more than anything, you pointed out, first black woman. There's only been two black men. Those numbers are a little shocking. HOSTIN: And one doesn't really represent the black community.

A few minutes later, co-host Joy Behar busted out the air quotes when it came to Coney Barrett’s womanhood and Thomas’s blackness. “You could make the case that somebody like Amy Coney Barrett was put in there because she's a white woman,” she griped. “Who they say, well, she’ll go against abortion rights and she's ‘a woman.’ So that was deliberate, I think. Clarence Thomas, ‘a black guy, a black man,’ a justice, okay, I'll give it to him.”

Adding: “He's a smart guy, but he is to the right of Attila the Hun, this guy. And they put him in there saying, oh, a black man will go against voting rights, which is what he does.”

Thank you white-woman Joy Behar for giving your permission for Thomas to have the title and dignity that he’s earned through his long career, hard work, and dedication to the Constitution.

Hostin responded by building off of the idea that Thomas wasn’t the correct kind of black person to be on the Supreme Court. “It's terribly disrespectful to appoint someone like Clarence Thomas with his philosophies to the seat of Thurgood Marshall, a civil rights activist,” she sneered.

But that wasn’t the only unhinged thing Behar launched into during the segment. She and co-host Whoopi Goldberg, without context or evidence, accused Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of breaking the law when it comes to the Supreme Court:

BEHAR: And it's a very tricky business they're pulling over there when you think about it. Not to mention the fact that Mitch McConnell has no concept of the law when it comes to the Supreme Court. GOLDBERG: They know the law. They're not following it. They don't want to follow it. That's the issue. BEHAR: And he’s allowed to not follow it.

They spouted off about people with "no concept of the law when it comes to the Supreme Court," yet they were suggesting that the justices needed to "represent" their communities based on race and gender. That's is not their job and it shouldn't be a factor because justice should be blind.

And before that, Behar went on a rant declaring the entire judiciary a “dictatorial branch of the government.” “I always feel like that particular branch of government is so anti-democracy,” she whined. “To call that a democratic institution seems an oxymoron.”

This disgusting display of bigotry was made possible because of lucrative sponsorships from Oral-B and Dove. Their contact information is linked.

The transcript is below, click "expand" to read:

SARA HAINES: Considering the uneven kind of court we have right now, it's so important that this is happening in a time where we can get another liberal. And of course, the representation more than anything, you pointed out, first black woman. There's only been two black men. Those numbers are a little shocking. SUNNY HOSTIN: And one doesn't really represent the black community. HAINES: No. But my whole point is that additional diversity I think is important that I just noticed as we talked about this, is when they talk about a potential justice, we talk about the Ivy League. It's always the Ivy League. Everyone is in Harvard and Yale except Amy Coney Barrett who’s Notre Dame. JOY BEHAR: The Supreme Court is like this dictatorial branch of the government. These are people who are appointed by their own people. They do not answer to the country. They are there for life. The only way to get rid of them is to impeach them, which is a long process. I always feel like that particular branch of government is so anti-democracy. The fact that there are no term limits, the fact that you can put, you know, your people on because they agree with you and then they're there forever influencing maybe three, four generations of Americans. To call that a democratic institution seems an oxymoron. HOSTIN: You mean the judiciary. BEHAR: You could make the case that somebody like Amy Coney Barrett was put in there because she's a white woman. BEHAR: Who they say, well, she’ll go against abortion rights and she's a “woman.” So that was deliberate, I think. Clarence Thomas, a black guy, a black man, a justice, okay, I'll give it to him. He's a smart guy, but he is to the right of Attila the Hun, this guy. And they put him in there saying, oh, a black man will go against voting rights, which is what he does. BEHAR: And it's a very tricky business they're pulling over there when you think about it. Not to mention the fact that Mitch McConnell has no concept of the law when it comes to the Supreme Court. GOLDBERG: They know the law. They're not following it. They don't want to follow it. That's the issue. BEHAR: And he’s allowed to not follow it. HOSTIN: It's terribly disrespectful to appoint someone like Clarence Thomas with his philosophies to the seat of Thurgood Marshall, a civil rights activist. GOLDBERG: With his wife right there. HOSTIN: With his wife’s activities involving the insurrection. GOLDBERG: Let's not even get into that.