(Joe Hoft) Steve Bannon on his War Room went off on Joe Biden. Bannon shared what we’re all thinking, we’re not interested in uniting the country if the left is pushing marxism and the destruction of the America.

Steve Bannon shared a video of Joe Biden claiming to want to bring the country together yesterday. This is something impossible for Biden to do. You cannot steal an election and then call for peace. The only possible way would be to resign, admit you stole the election, and ask for forgiveness, which is something the Democrats will never do.

Bannon responded to Biden with this:

The WarRoom is not here to unite the country; The WarRoom is here to fight your Cultural Marxism, your Globalism, your destruction of the middle class/the working class, and therefore the Constitutional Republic that’s been handed down from generations from time and memorial. That’s our thesis. That’s our theory of the case. And note to self, we’re winning and you’re losing.

Joe Hoft is the twin brother of TGP’s founder, Jim Hoft. His posts have been retweeted by President Trump and have made the headlines at the Drudge Report. Joe worked as a corporate executive in Hong Kong and traveled the world for his work, which gives him a unique perspective of US and global current events. He has ten degrees or designations and is the author of three books. His new book: ‘In God We Trust: Not in Lying Liberal Lunatics’ is out now – please take a look and buy a copy..

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.