(Patty McMurray) This afternoon, Eric Trump Jr. announced on Instagram that their legal team had filed a brief in the Supreme Court of New York outlining the illegal and blatantly unethical behavior of Letitia James, the Attorney General of New York.



Related George W. Bush Sends Maximum Cash Donations to Embattled Republicans Who Voted to Impeach Trump

NYP explains – In a 38-page Manhattan Supreme Court filing, Trump’s lawyers cite a litany of public remarks in which James “improperly and repeatedly threatened investigation and prosecution of former President Trump and his family as a campaign promise to garner votes, money, and support, and now, as Attorney General, to gain political support.” The examples highlighted in the legal brief include a Sept. 28, 2018, campaign video in which James — now running for re-election — said she believed that Trump had “engaged in a pattern and practice of money laundering” and “can be indicted for criminal offenses.” “When Ms. James made this speech, she had no evidence that Donald Trump was engaged in any criminal activity,” according to court papers.

This is a “small” compilation of her venomous hatred for Donald Trump, his family, and his company. There are 81 more pages of tweets, Facebook posts, campaign statements, and fundraising solicitations (some as recent as last week) that accompany these videos in our lawsuit. It’s prosecutorial misconduct, it’s unethical, and it’s illegal – and fortunately, her words are all captured on tape and in writing for the judge and the world, to see.

New York State has been through hell because of an absolute failure of our elected officials. Last week, an 11-month-old girl was shot in the face, and two brave law enforcement officers were executed on New York City streets. Crime is absolutely rampant, homelessness is through the roof, and 1.9% of New Yorkers have fled the state in the last 12 months (over 352,000 people) – yet the New York AG’s focus remains on getting Trump, the leader of the Republican Party, and will dedicate her entire office to do so. Everyone sees it – Wall Street Journal Editorial Board, CNN… even people who are no fans, fully understand what she is doing. Letitia is no longer working as the Attorney General; she is working for the DNC and using the resources of the State of New York to further her own political ambition with her primary a few short months away.

So many people have lost faith in our legal system, and it is because of people and actions like this. She has tainted her office, embarrassed the system and office, and failed New York – if forced to do so, we will take these words to the highest courts in the land.

For now, I hope she gets back to work and fixes the disaster that she has helped create. New York is imploding, and unfortunately, her office will be dedicated to answering this. What a shame…

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.