( ) As the “Where’s Waldo?” prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau continued to hide out in an “undisclosed location” (or is it?) due to fear for his “safety,” truckers continued to flock to Ottawa to protest the embattled prime minister’s ridiculous draconian COVID-19 mandates.



So, the mayor of Ottawa “bravely” stepped forward to take a stand against the truckers. Yup, Mayor Jim Watson called several towing companies and asked them to start towing trucks out of the city. Just one problem.

According to various sources, every towing company had the same response” “We’ve got CO-VID.”

Now, there comes a report in the Toronto Sun that the ‘tax the unvaxxed’ harebrain scheme is out but it totally has nothing to do with the truckers.

Check out this video for one account of the hilarity:

Liberty of Death — with an assist from Leo DeCaprio — nailed it.



Humor aside, when in Rome — in this case, Ottawa — do as the Romans — Ottawa towing companies — did: Fight fire with fire.

It looks like that is exactly what one American truck driver named Brian Base intends to do with his trucker brothers in a “Freedom convoy” from California to D.C. Watch:

“Well, let me start quick by saying that I’m actually a co-organizer of one that we are putting together for the United States to go to California, to D.C,” Base told Fox News show host Sean Hannity. “The other two guys, they can speak a lot more from that but I will stand my sign we are so very proud of them up there. I think many Americans, probably a majority of Americans are watching closely to what’s going on. Truck drivers of the United States are watching what’s going on up there. The health workers, educators, law enforcement, federal employees are watching what’s going on up there and we are actually proud of them and you know, somebody has gotten fight. Teamwork with our northern neighbors and us, we’ve got it.”

The left is not dissimilar to the world’s tyrants — in the respect that they only respect strength. From Barack Obama’s ridiculous “World Apology Tours” after he ascended to his self-gilded throne to Joe Biden’s clueless pandering to Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping, Democrats have never learned how to fight the fire of America’s enemies. They never will.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

The news is important to all people because it is where we come to know new things about the world, which leads to the development of more life goals that lead to life wisdom. The news also serves as a social connection tool, as we tend to relate to those who know about and believe the things we do. With the power of an open truth-seeking mind in hand, the individual can grow wise and the collective can prosper.

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.