(Natalia Mittelstadt) “I think the American people understand that one year of the Joe Biden presidency has been maybe the worst ever,” Rep. Jim Jordan said.



Related After the GOP Takes Control of the House, Biden Needs To Be Impeached

Representative Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) warned on Tuesday that Republicans should be confident, but not overconfident, when talking to the American people in the upcoming midterm election campaigns.

The congressman told “Just the News, Not Noise” co-hosts John Solomon and Amanda Head that, during the Biden administration, “I think the American people understand that one year of the Joe Biden presidency has been maybe the worst ever.

“We went from a secure border to chaos. We went from safe streets to record crime. We went from energy independence to the president of the United States begging OPEC to increase production. We went from stable prices to a 40-year-high inflation. We … saw the debacle that was the exit from Afghanistan,” Jordan said.

“So there’s not one thing they’ve done right, and then you couple all that with the attacks on our First Amendment freedoms, and the attack on our Second Amendment liberties that’s come from the Biden administration, and I think the American people have said, ‘Enough.'”

He explained that Americans are so frustrated with the Biden administration “that we now have a Republican governor in the state of Virginia because we saw that the Department of Justice was targeting moms and dads who was simply showing up at school board meetings, speaking out against this racist, crazy curriculum that’s being taught in some of our schools.”

“[W]hat we have to do is not get overconfident, but be confident, go talk to the American people, how we’ll make things better if in fact we are given the majority in the House and the majority in the United States Senate,” Jordan said.

When asked about whether or not he has received answers from the Biden Justice Department on the politicization of federal law enforcement, the congressman said, “No, we haven’t.

“And frankly, I don’t think we’ll get the answers until we’re back in the majority,” he continued. “But if we are back in the majority, we’re going to push to get the American people the truth.”

Jordan also mentioned that the purpose of the Democrat-led House Select Committee on Jan. 6 is to prevent former President Donald Trump from running again in 2024.

He reacted to the resolution that has been brought forward by former Trump adviser David Bossie to demand that House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) expel Reps. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) and Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), the only two Republicans on the Jan. 6 committee, from the House GOP conference.

“[W]e have these two individuals who are now on this Jan. 6th Committee, which anyone with any common sense, with just any basic understanding can see is a committee that’s totally political with one design: to stop President Trump from running again in 2024,” Jordan said.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.