(Martin Walsh) Democrats and their allies in the mainstream media have spent years smearing and slandering Donald Trump.

It has become more than clear that those efforts have not worked.

Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have unfavorable ratings higher than that of Donald Trump.

According to the RealClearPolitics collection of polls, the left-wing propaganda campaigns against Trump have failed.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is sitting even worse, with her unfavorable at 58.5 percent.

Here’s the cherry on top: Trump has a higher favorable rating (40.6 percent) than both Harris (39.8 percent) and Pelosi (33.5 percent).

Biden’s favorable rating (42.4 percent) is only a little higher than Trump’s 40.6 percent.

An explosive new poll earlier this month found that most Americans do not believe Joe Biden will run for a second term in office.

According to a survey from Quinnipiac, 54 percent of Americans don’t think Biden will seek re-election in 2024.

-Americans were asked about whether they’d be more or less likely to vote for a candidate who was endorsed by Joe Biden. Overall, 16 percent say they would be more likely to vote for the candidate, 29 percent say less likely, and 53 percent say it doesn’t make a difference.

-Among Democrats, 42 percent say they will be more likely to vote for the candidate, 53 percent say it doesn’t make a difference, and 3 percent say less likely.

-A majority of Americans, 54 – 33 percent, say they think Joe Biden will not run for president in 2024, with another 13 percent not offering an opinion.

-Just under half of Americans (48 percent) say they think it would be bad for the country if Joe Biden ran for president in 2024, while 37 percent think it would be good for the country.

Most Americans do not want Joe Biden to run for re-election.

According to a Hill-HarrisX poll, most Americans want Biden to step aside for another candidate to be the Democratic presidential nominee in 2024.

The poll found that a whopping 61% of voters prefer that Biden not seek a second term in office.

Just 24% of respondents supported a reelection bid, and another 15% said they were unsure if he should run again.

In results that broke along party lines, 87% of Republicans said he should not run again, compared with 37% of Democrats.

More importantly, 59% of Independents also said Biden should only serve one term.

According to the poll, 46% of voters believe Biden has accomplished less than they expected in his first 10 months in office, compared with 23% who say he has done more than they expected, and 31% who said he has done what they expected him to do in office.

According to the publication, the poll was conducted online with 921 registered voters Nov. 9-10 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.

That dropped to 47.2% approving his job on Aug. 30, compared with 47.5% disapproving.

The declining approval continued through August, September, October, and November, to 51.7% disapproving as of today, compared with 42.8% approving his performance.

Rumors are flying that Biden’s administration is looking into the idea of replacing Kamala Harris as vice president.

White House insiders are painting a picture of total chaos and discontent between Biden and Harris, according to CNN.

“Kamala Harris is a leader but is not being put in positions to lead,” a top Democratic donor said. “[Biden] should be putting her in positions to succeed, as opposed to putting weights on her. If you did give her the ability to step up and help her lead, it would strengthen you and strengthen the party.”

The CNN report also claims there’s a rumor that Biden has considered booting Harris from the vice presidency altogether and nominating her to a Supreme Court vacancy.

“That chatter has already reached top levels of the Biden orbit, according to one person who’s heard it,” CNN reported.

CNN’s report claims Biden allies in the administration have avoided dealing with Harris because they see “entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus” from her.

Stillness in the Storm Editor: Why did we post this?

Not sure how to make sense of this? Want to learn how to discern like a pro? Read this essential guide to discernment, analysis of claims, and understanding the truth in a world of deception: 4 Key Steps of Discernment – Advanced Truth-Seeking Tools.

Stillness in the Storm Editor’s note: Did you find a spelling error or grammatical mistake? Send an email to corrections@stillnessinthestorm.com, with the error and suggested correction, along with the headline and url. Do you think this article needs an update? Or do you just have some feedback? Send us an email at sitsshow@gmail.com. Thank you for reading.