During a television debate, French philosopher Alain Finkielkraut said it would take a “fanatical denial of reality” to disregard the “spectacular” demographic changes that are taking place in Europe.

Alain Finkielkraut, who is one of 40 lifetime members of the 400-year-old Académie Française, which serves to safeguard the French language and culture, made the comments during an appearance on TV channel Europe 1.

Finkielkraut asserted that attempts to shut down such debates by claiming mere discussion of a “Great Replacement” is dangerous are only serving to distract from a very real and “obvious” problem.

“This is in fact a fragmentation and yes, this risk does exists and in any case, I think the demographic change of Europe is extremely spectacular. The historical peoples in certain municipalities and regions are becoming a minority,” Finkielkraut said. “A whole part of French people now live not in the suburbs, but beyond the suburbs, because they are no longer the cultural reference they used to be, because all the butchers are, for example, Halal.”

The philosopher stressed that the issue should be treated “with a lot of precaution, but demonizing it (as racist) is absurd and once again testifies to the fanatical denial of reality.”

The most vocal and outspoken candidate in the upcoming French election when it comes to highlighting demographic replacement is Jewish intellectual Eric Zemmour, a man who Finkielkraut insists is “too radical.”

Zemmour has called for France’s notorious Islamic ghetto no-go zones, which are routinely the scene of violence and mass rioting, to be “re-conquered by force.”

In a speech, Zemmour also warned that 1.5 billion Africans wanting to make their way to Europe represented “the death of France.”

“I think the anguish felt over the end of France as it was, the anguish of the Great Replacement, has become a global feeling,” said Zemmour last year. “The fear of no longer being France, the fear of the famous Great Replacement. A lot of people are starting to think that Islam is going to replace us. It has become a massive feeling, a mass of 70 to 80 percent of France.”

A poll taken in April last year found that the majority of French citizens thought some form of “civil war” was likely as a result of failed multiculturalism and attacks on French identity.

The poll was prompted by a letter that was signed by 1,000 military servicemembers, including 20 retired generals, warning President Macron of “several deadly dangers” threatening France, including “Islamism and the hordes of the banlieue,” a reference to the fractured suburbs around major cities with high crime and immigrant populations.

Brand new merch now available! Get it at https://www.pjwshop.com/

In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch.

I need you to sign up for my free newsletter here.

Support my sponsor – Turbo Force – a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown.

Get early access, exclusive content and behinds the scenes stuff by following me on Locals.