Here is a look at just some of those from the business world that were knighted, handed a CBE or received an OBE, and comments from some of those recognised.

*Dave Lewis, the former Tesco chief executive who left the supermarket giant in October, has been knighted. He was recognised for services to the food industry and to business.

John Allan, Tesco Chairman, said: “Dave led Tesco through a challenging turnaround, with a focus on customers and a commitment to our purpose and values. On behalf of all Tesco colleagues, we send our congratulations and best wishes.”

Smith said: “This award is for the whole of Ocado Retail; 2020 has been a remarkable year for everyone, including those working in the grocery retail sector. I’ve been humbled and totally inspired by the amazing job that my team has done this year. As well as navigating the challenges of the pandemic, we also managed the biggest change to our range in two decades, with the launch of M&S at Ocado.”

Smith added: “This will be an unforgettable year for everyone. I’m proud of the role that Ocado continues to play in feeding the nation during these difficult times.”

Whitfield said: “It is a great honour, and in reality is a valuable recognition for all my colleagues at the Co-op who have gone above and beyond to help feed the nation and support communities during the coronavirus pandemic. They have worked tirelessly to keep shops open and stocked and also help food banks at a time of need.”

Woolard said: “I’m delighted. This award really recognises two things - the outstanding work done by many colleagues during the Covid-19 emergency, and the world leading role the FCA has played over the last few years in fintech. I’m proud to have been part of these and the recognition this gives to the the FCA’s role.”

Nicholls added: “This year has been one of continued despair and heartbreak for hard-pressed hospitality businesses. They were hit first and hit hardest by the pandemic but, despite this, there have been countless inspirational examples of leadership, resilience and collaboration, of people coming together to support their local communities during this unprecedented time, helping to feed frontline NHS and key workers, the homeless and support others in need. It is those values that make me proud to have represented and been part of such a wonderful sector for many years.”