The boards of Countrywide, behind high street chains such as Bairstow Eves and Hamptons International, and Connells, which has around 581 UK branches (under its name or other brands), said they have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash offer.

That is a premium of around 172% to the closing price of 145p pence per share on November 6 ( the last business day prior to the commencement of the offer period).

The offer is higher than other recent approaches from the suitor, including a 325p per share proposal on December 7.

The companies today said all of Countrywide's lenders will be repaid in full and Connells will provide additional investment in Countrywide's “technology, branch network and people, stabilising and enhancing Countrywide's business for the benefit of its customers, employees and other stakeholders”.

Throughout the year Countrywide, which is under pressure to pay down debts ahead of potentially breaching covenants next year, has been looking at various plans to help the business.

There was an initial potential 250p-a-share deal from Connells, which was unanimously rejected by the board.

There was also another potential option. On December 2, Countrywide announced that it had received an indicative revised proposal for an equity raising fully underwritten by private equity firm Alchemy Partners.

The Countrywide board today confirmed that it does not intend to pursue that proposal and has ended discussions with Alchemy Partners.

David Watson, acting non-executive chairman of Countrywide, said: “Following a thorough evaluation of options and extensive consultation with the company's major shareholders, we have been encouraged by their recognition of the need to put in place a sustainable capital structure and a willingness to support the company, which is a great business that has been constrained by too much debt.”

Watson added: "This significantly improved offer from Connells allows Countrywide shareholders to realise their investment in cash at a price that fairly values the opportunities and risks of the business. We are pleased to recommend this offer.”

David Livesey, Connells Group’s chief executive, said: "Our primary motivation for the acquisition is to invest in and grow the Countrywide business. We believe that we have the right management team, strategy and investment firepower to work with the talented teams at Countrywide and lead Countrywide into a bright future."

The Connells board believes that the acquisition provides “compelling value for Countrywide shareholders in the context of a challenging housing market and broader macro-economic uncertainty as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and Brexit uncertainty”.