The United States is sending 3,000 troops to Europe amid escalating escalation between Russia and Ukraine, amid fears of a possible Russian military invasion of Ukraine, according to the Associated Press.

The Pentagon said Wednesday (Feb. 2) that 1,000 U.S. troops will be redeployed from Germany to Romania, while in the coming days, another 2,000 will be deployed to Europe from the U.S. with the aim of bolstering NATO capabilities in the region.

However, Department of Defense press secretary Juan Kirby emphasized that “these are not permanent movements,” but are designed to respond to the current security situation. He further stressed that these forces are not going to fight in Ukraine, but rather to ensure a robust NATO defense.

Of the 2,000 from Fort Bragg, N.C., approximately 1,700 are members of the 82nd Airborne Division’s infantry brigade, who will go to Poland, while the remaining 300 will be transferred from the 18th Airborne Corps and deployed to Germany as a “joint task force-capable headquarters,” Kirby said.

The 1,000 U.S. troops going to Romania are members of the 2nd Cavalry Regiment based in Vilseck, Germany.

The U.S. Defense Department said the troops are being sent under bilateral agreements with Poland, Germany and Romania, and will remain under U.S. command.

All of these troops will be separate from the 8,500 that were sent last month by the U.S. Those soldiers were deployed throughout Europe to bolster NATO defenses and remain on high alert for any sign of invasion, the Pentagon said at the time.

However, the president has made it clear that no U.S. forces will be deployed directly to Ukraine. Similarly, NATO Secretary Jens Stoltenberg said last month that no alliance forces would be deployed in Kiev, according to The Hill.

Tensions have soared in the past month over the concentration of more than 100,000 Russian troops on the Ukrainian border.

Although Moscow has repeatedly insisted that it does not want a war with Kiev and that it does not threaten Ukraine, the U.S. considers a Russian attack “imminent.”