Whoopi Goldberg was suspended from NBC’s “The View” after declaring last Monday, January 31, that the Holocaust “is not about race.” According to the New York Post, a source said that the actress considers herself humiliated and stated that she will leave the show permanently.

On Tuesday, ABC News president Kim Godwin said in a statement that the network had decided to suspend her for two weeks, even though the actress had apologized for her remarks because it wanted to give her “time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments.”

“Words matter and we must be cognizant of the impact our words have,” Godwin wrote.

According to a source not named by the New York Post, Goldberg has not taken the suspension well and is “furious” that even after apologizing on ABC’s advice, she was still temporarily removed from the show.

Goldberg made her remarks on The View on Monday, a few days after the International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust.

After receiving severe criticism, the actress and host took to Twitter to issue an apology. She wrote: “On today’s show, I said the Holocaust’ is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man.’ I should have said it is about both.’ As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, ‘The Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people—who they deemed to be an inferior race.’ I stand corrected.'”

“The Jewish people around the world have always had my support and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused. Written with my sincerest apologies,” Goldberg added.

Several came out to criticize the actress and put forward their points of view. Former “The View” co-host Meghan McCain left the show last year because she felt marginalized for her conservative stance. She said on Twitter that there is growing antisemitism in the world.

“I hate commenting on my old employer because I have moved in every way a person can move on,” she wrote. “That being said I am an activist against antisemitism and it is a big part of my life. The growing threat is real and virulent and everywhere. I am heartbroken about what was said.”

Meanwhile, actress Debra Messing wrote: “@WhoopiGoldberg You deeply hurt & offended me. By minimizing the horror of the Holocaust, the systematic annihilating of 6 MILLION Jews—which by the way, IS a race—an attempted GENOCIDE to white on white crime? You “All Lives Matter,”—ed us. Devastating & dangerous.”

Notwithstanding the barrage of criticism, as noted by the NY Post, commentator Ana Navarro expressed that to her, Goldberg’s comment was not malicious, telling the Daily Beast on Tuesday, “This was an incredibly unfortunate incident. Whoopi is a lifelong ally to the Jewish community. She is not an anti-Semite, period. I am sad. And I have nothing else to say.”