The Canadian “Freedom Convoy” of truckers, representing the voices of the forgotten working-class men and women of Canada, have achieved a resounding victory today on behalf of Middle Canada. The conservative opposition in Canada has removed Erin O’Toole as opposition leader. This is a great first step in Canadian politics for the working class.

Erin O’Toole was a pathetically weak voice who refused to stand boldly on behalf of the working class protestors. Middle Canada has risen up and said enough, it is time for the insufferable government regulations to end and normal people to regain their freedom and liberty.

Instead of accepting the role of advocacy for the constituents he proclaimed to represent, Erin O’Toole instead showed his alignment with the government that was oppressing the people.

It is often said that times of great consequence create moments that must be recognized by strong political leaders.

Not only did O’Toole fail to realize the moment, and fail to capitalize on the opportunity the truckers had brought to his office, he openly opposed the commonsense voice of the people. Today he was removed by a vote of 73 to 45.

One hundred eighteen of the opposition MPs were present to remove him from party leadership. This is what representative government should look like; notwithstanding the need to look even more closely at those who voted to keep him around.

Yes, in the larger analysis, the truckers gained a massive victory today by removing a political pontificating pustule of pomposity. Well Done!

Canadian state media is sad to see their side lose such principled and controlled opposition.

(State Media CBC) – […] O’Toole, a four-term Ontario MP who has fought only one federal election campaign as the party’s leader, will be replaced by an interim leader later today after another caucus vote.

After the vote was over, O’Toole officially resigned his post in a letter to Rob Batherson, the president of the Conservative Party of Canada, according to a source with knowledge of the decision.

In a resignation video posted to Twitter, O’Toole described his time as Conservative leader as “the honour of a lifetime” — before warning that “Canada is in a dire moment of our history.”

[…] Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh and Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet each acknowledged O’Toole during question period on Wednesday.

“There is a lot we don’t agree on for the direction of this country, but he stepped up to serve his country and I want to thank him for his sacrifice,” Trudeau said. (read more)

Who among the Canadian political class will now stand with the truckers, with The People?

Who will listen to the voices of Middle Canada and rise to the occasion?

Who will stand with the movement and lead the working Canadian people to freedom?

Who is the person of courage that can deserve their support?

If we are mark’d to die, we are enow

 To do our country loss; and if to live,

 The fewer men, the greater share of honour.

 God’s will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.

By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,

 Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;

 It yearns me not if men my garments wear;

 Such outward things dwell not in my desires.

 But if it be a sin to covet honour,

 I am the most offending soul alive.

No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England.

 God’s peace! I would not lose so great an honour

 As one man more methinks would share from me

 For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!

Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,

 That he which hath no stomach to this fight,

 Let him depart; his passport shall be made,

 And crowns for convoy put into his purse;

 We would not die in that man’s company

 That fears his fellowship to die with us.

This day is call’d the feast of Crispian.

 He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,

 Will stand a tip-toe when this day is nam’d,

 And rouse him at the name of Crispian.

He that shall live this day, and see old age,

 Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,

 And say “To-morrow is Saint Crispian.”

Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars,

 And say “These wounds I had on Crispian’s day.”

 Old men forget; yet all shall be forgot,

 But he’ll remember, with advantages,

 What feats he did that day. Then shall our names,

 Familiar in his mouth as household words-

 Harry the King, Bedford and Exeter,

 Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester-

 Be in their flowing cups freshly remembred.

 This story shall the good man teach his son;

 And Crispin Crispian shall neer go by,

 From this day to the ending of the world,

 But we in it shall be remembered-

We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;

 For he to-day that sheds his blood with me

 Shall be my brother; be he neer so vile,

 This day shall gentle his condition;

 And gentlemen in England now-a-bed

 Shall think themselves accursd they were not here,

 And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks

 That fought with us upon Saint Crispin’s day.

This is the time in the history of government when the core, central and basic topic of FREEDOM is being eroded.

This is not a time for pastels. This is a time for bold contrasts.

The Western values of representative government either support the basic tenet that people should be free, or that government does not. There is no middle ground.

We cannot be partially adherent to tyranny when the systems of government are demanding obedience to forced medical procedures. At this moment of consequence, we are either free to reject medical treatment – or we are not free. There is no middle ground.

We are either free, as unique individuals to move around our own country without some arbitrary registration process, or we are not free. There is no middle ground.

The premise of “papers please” is either rejected, or it is accepted. There is no middle ground.

These are the core tenets that must be determined, argued, fought about, defended and decided. There is no room for quisling prose or the parsing of personage amid the discussion.

This is not a debate for the soft consideration about the tender sensibilities of small voices.

Hell, this is a debate that should never have been a debate, but here it is.

Every conservative politician must now, in this moment of extreme significance, rise to the needs of this damned occasion, fight for freedom like they are the third monkey on the ramp to Noah’s Ark, or get the hell out of the way and let the people with dirty fingernails decide the outcome.

The moment is now. The moment, this moment, is what the truckers of Canada and the free people around the world who support them are trying to force upon unwilling government leadership around the world.

Every conservative politician in Canada should be forced to look at this little girl and justify their action or lack thereof.

There is no middle ground.

Lead, follow, or get the hell out of the way!

Indeed, they are my lady. Indeed they are.