Jeff Zucker abruptly resigned from CNN releasing a statement: “As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo’s tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years,” Mr. Zucker wrote. “I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn’t. I was wrong.”

Apparently, Jeff Zucker has been involved in a long-term relationship with a woman named Allison Gollust as she worked her way through the ranks at CNN throughout her career.

Ms. Gollust is currently CNN’s executive vice president and chief marketing officer, positioning her as one of the highest-ranking leaders within the network, closely involved in major business and communications decisions.

Ms. Gollust said in another statement Wednesday she was remaining in her role at CNN: “Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years,” she wrote. “Recently, our relationship changed during Covid. I regret that we didn’t disclose it at the right time. I’m incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do every day.”

Essentially, what appears to have taken place is then married Jeff Zucker and then married Allison Gollust beginning a relationship many years ago, and Zucker advancing Gollust throughout her career, even to the point of her physical location living above him. Both of them eventually divorced from their respective spouses, and yet the network, or at least the board of directors, was “unaware” of their relationship.

Interestingly, RadarOnline wrote about Gollust and Zucker a month ago as it pertains to the firing of Chris Cuomo and the fight over a subsequent exit package of compensation {Read Here}. The RadarOnline article tells the story of the real dynamic, and in hindsight, their suspicions are almost certainly accurate now:

[…] “The talk in the corridors of CNN about Jeff and Allison’s purported relationship complicates the sticky decision to fire Chris,” said one highly placed source. “Have they sullied the network’s reputation? One could argue they have; it just hasn’t been made public yet.”

It also calls into question the hypocrisy of Zucker and Gollust who initially stood by Cuomo when it emerged he rushed to the aid of his embattled brother, the former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

Gollust, a veteran public relations expert, once worked as the Democratic lawmaker’s communications director, and rumor mongers inside CNN HQ told Radar that her past job with Cuomo and claims of a romantic relationship raise questions about why Zucker initially protected the embattled brothers.

The alleged affair is said to have begun while the pair were both married: Zucker to wife Caryn and Gollust to husband Billy. Five years after Gollust joined CNN, Zucker announced he and his wife had split after 21 years of marriage. It was said they had simply “grown apart” and the marriage had been dead for 10 years. (read more)

It’s all an internecine mess but explains the situation.

Former Fox News host Megyn Kelly, a media personality very familiar with sexual relationships as a technique to advance in positions of broadcast power and network influence, notes the scale of what Zucker did to keep Gollust around will likely shock CNN followers. It appears Ms. Kelly has some details of her own; after all, she was heavily recruited by CNN after Kelly announced her departure from Fox.