Novak Djokovic could soon return to action in the United States for the first time since his unvaccinated COVID status resulted in him being barred from the Australian Open.

The world No.1 of men's tennis' left Australia after a legal dispute about whether or not officials could ban him from the tournament, which was won by Rafael Nadal on Monday.

The 34-year-old Serb is set to return to the courts later this following confirmation of his participation at the Dubai Duty Free Tennis Championships, which starts on February 21.

Next month, could see his return to the States and Miami, where the Monaco-based star owns a $5 million luxury condo building.

Djokovic regularly plays the Miami Open, and tournament organizers have told Newsweek that they "anticipate" him to take part this year's beginning March 21.

Questions still remain about whether the 34-year-old will be able to feature in some of the tennis calendar's biggest tournaments of 2022.

He is one of just three known unvaccinated players in the ATP top 100.

So what are the 20 Grand Slam winner's chances of participating in upcoming U.S. tournaments?

Djokovic's unvaccinated status is likely to continue to complicate bureaucratic procedures for him and his team this season.

Despite some tournaments forgoing compulsory vaccination requirements for players, national entry requirements still pose a significant hurdle for unvaccinated travelers.

Currently, unvaccinated non-citizens will be denied entry to the U.S, according to the national restrictions in place at time of publication.

CDC's website reads: "If you are a non-U.S. citizen, non-U.S. immigrant and not fully vaccinated, you will not be allowed to enter the United States. Only limited exceptions apply to the requirement to show proof of vaccination."

It is unclear whether Djokovic's case will fall within the exemption bracket, plus his botched attempt at acquiring an Australian exemption will likely increase the scrutiny his team is under when traveling.

The CDC regulations state exemptions can be granted to those who can provide certified "medical contraindications" for not receiving the vaccine.

Exemptions could also be given to "persons whose entry would be in the national interest, as determined by the Secretary of State, Secretary of Transportation, or Secretary of Homeland Security."

It remains to be seen whether Djokovic will be able to enter the U.S to compete this season.

The Miami Open returns in all its glory next month as a full-capacity event, running from March 21 to April 3.

Last year's edition was held with attendance capped at 20 percent, while the 2020 edition was cancelled due to COVID.

Many fans are eager to see the world's leading tennis players grace the court of the Florida city, though all eyes are currently on Djokovic's potential participation in the tournament.

Event organizers told Newsweek that they "anticipate" that the Serb will participate in this year's tournament, though his presence has not been officially confirmed.

Speaking to the Miami Herald this week, tournament director James Blake said: "We'd love to have him, he's one of the greatest champions we've ever had in the sport.

"I believe he will go down as the greatest champion. He still got quite a few more years of being at or near the top of the game. It's a matter of him figuring out how to navigate this time, the protocols, what's safe, what isn't safe?"

Additionally, Djokovic seemingly holds a soft spot for the tournament and the city itself, where he is said to own a house.

The Miami Open was the first major tournament the Serb won. He first won it in 2007, aged just 19, becoming the tournament's youngest ever winner. Djokovic crowned himself champion without losing a single set, a feat that had not been achieved since Ivan Lendl's win in 1989.

Djokovic has since gone on to win the tournament six times, a joint-record he shared with tennis great Andre Agassi.

Djokovic's representatives have been contacted for comment.

The crown jewel of the North American tennis calendar is the U.S. Open—one of four Grand Slam tournaments, alongside Wimbledon, the French Open, and Australian Open.

The Serb will certainly hope to play in this year's edition, as he continues to seek his elusive 21st Grand Slam title.

Nonetheless, Djokovic and his team will likely have a few bureaucratic obstacles to overcome before guaranteeing his participation.

The tournament takes place in New York, and as such organizers will abide by the executive orders in place in the state, which further complicates Djokovic's case.

All attending fans will need proof of at least one vaccination, however there are no vaccination requirements in place for players, as the New York executive order "exempts non-resident professional athletes (and sports teams) not based in New York City" from the measure.

Players will instead have to undergo COVID tests every three days.

The Serb has won the U.S. Open three times in the past. The tournament will be held from June 16 to 19.

Another prominent date on the U.S. leg of the ATP tour this season is the BNP Paribas Open at Indian Wells.

Djokovic chose to withdraw from the Indian Wells last year following his defeat to Russian Daniil Medvedev in the US Open final. A victory in that match would have seen him make history as the first male player to win 21 Grand Slams.

In a tweet announcing his withdrawal from the tournament, the 34-year-old said: "I am sorry I won't get to see my fans in Indian Wells and play in the desert, my favorite place to go. I hope to see you next year!"

His promise to return to the BNP Paribas Open this year remains in limbo however.

The tournament itself does not require players to be vaccinated in order to participate, though national COVID entry requirements in the U.S. might complicate his appearance.

The BNP Paribas Open will take place between March 7 to 20.

Next month also marks the return of the ATP Tour to Dallas for the first time in over three decades.

The Dallas Open will take place from the February 6 to 13, having been relocated from New York for the first time since 1989.

However, it does not appear the world number one will be likely to make an appearance at the Texas tournament.

Event organizers told Newsweek that the Serb "has not requested a wildcard spot in the tournament, which is what he would need at this stage since the player field has been finalized."

Dallas Open organizers have not specified whether mandatory vaccination policies are in place for participating players.