News agency Reuters has corrected a report incorrectly stating that the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin was shown to be effective as an anti-viral against the Omicron variant in phase III clinical trials, which fuelled false claims that it should be used to treat COVID-19.

Ivermectin has been touted as a COVID-19 treatment despite a lack of clinical evidence to back this up.

The drug is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in humans to treat COVID-19.

In fact, the agency has explicitly warned against the drug being used in this way, citing multiple reports of people requiring hospital treatment after self-medicating with doses intended for farm animals.

Ivermectin is only approved for human and animal use in treating certain parasitic infections, though the type given to people is different to the type that is given to animals.

On Monday, Reuters reported that Ivermectin had been shown to have an "antiviral effect" against the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in phase III trials—which are conducted in humans—citing a press release by Japanese pharmaceutical company Kowa.

However, Reuters later published a correction to this claim explaining that this statement was not true, and that what Kowa had actually found was that ivermectin had an antiviral effect against COVID-19 in non-clinical research.

The note read: "The original Reuters story misstated that ivermectin was 'effective' against Omicron in Phase III clinical trials, which are conducted in humans."

This is not a groundbreaking development. Reports suggesting that ivermectin may be useful as a COVID-19 treatment based on non-clinical in vitro research—essentially test tube studies—date back to early 2020.

However, in vitro research cannot capture the complexity of a clinical human study and results based on such research do not always translate well into human use.

As such, despite some positive in vitro activity, clinical trials have still not found sufficient evidence supporting the use of ivermectin as a COVID-19 treatment and some have suffered from limitations including small sample sizes or a lack of consistency in the ivermectin doses studied.

Dr. Alastair McAlpine, a South African paediatrician, tweeted that in vitro ivermectin studies have "not translated into meaningful data in humans" and that the Kowa report "changes nothing."

Some people continue to tout ivermectin as a COVID-19 treatment despite this lack of clinical evidence, and many saw the mis-interpreted Kowa report as vindication.

Candace Owens, a conservative political commentator and author who has expressed skeptical views on vaccines, tweeted: "We have known ivermectin works, and the FDA has blocked it … They want people to die."

Joe Rogan, the popular and controversial podcast host, purportedly shared the false phase III trial claims on Twitter on Sunday but has since appeared to have deleted his tweet.

Charlie Kirk, another prominent conservative political commentator, also appeared to make reference to the false Kowa study claim in a tweet.

Kowa is conducting a phase III clinical trial into the usefulness of ivermectin against COVID-19, but this trial is still ongoing.

Newsweek has contacted Kirk, Rogan, Owens, and Kowa for comment.