MAJOR proposals to redevelop the home of Hampshire cricket have been revealed – and include plans to build a new 183-home estate.

The county cricket club has teamed up with Land Development Advisory to reimagine the Ageas Bowl and surrounding land.

As well as a new estate, comprising 103 houses and 80 apartments, the scheme looks to erect a new hotel to "compliment" the existing Hilton. It would offer 135 double bedrooms.

To the southwest of the stadium, an independent living tower with 71 ensuite units is proposed.

The car park would also be redesigned to offer 945 spaces.

Plans for a 'wellbeing centre' are also included, which could accommodate sports physiotherapy, GP medical consultation rooms, a scanning suite, a pharmacy, opticians, a pilates/ yoga studio, a gymnasium or staff facilities.

The Ageas Bowl Chairman, Rod Bransgrove, said: “The sharing of our transformational plans with the public is an incredibly exciting moment.

"These ambitious plans represent the fulfilment of our original pledge to secure the long-term future of The Ageas Bowl and Hampshire Cricket whilst further enhancing our amenities for the local community.

"The plans have been expertly guided to this pre-application stage and we now look forward to receiving feedback from the public to assist us in shaping our final submission.’’

On its website, the LDA said: "Surplus land will be developed to raise funds in order to achieve the above objectives in support of this vital regional community asset and world class sporting venue.

"The Ageas Bowl is the home of Hampshire Cricket, Southern Vipers and Southern Brave. It is a local, national and international asset to the West End and Southampton."

The scheme looks to enhance the match day experience, with the construction of a new arrival space at the existing junction with Botley Road.

It would funnel visitors towards a processional pedestrian ramp, which leads up to the stadium fan zone. Circulating around a new fan shop and central square, the ramp would gently rise through the tree canopy and over Marshall Drive, and take the visitor towards the stadium.

A new public space is proposed to the south of the stadium, which would connect the existing southern gateway to the stadium and the golf course, and beyond to the overflow car park.

It is intended that this space will celebrate the transition of stadium visitors at large events that will be held no more than twelve times a year.

A brand-new pavilion building is also planned to the south, sitting directly between the main stadium pitch and the practice pitch on the fan zone area.

The LDA website continues: "Hampshire County Cricket Club (HCCC) and LDA have spent considerable time looking into the opportunities the Ageas Bowl’s site and facilities present in order to generate the inward investment needed to preserve the long-term future of the site.

"This exercise has involved consultation with a significant number of stakeholders and resulted in the creation of a development brief that informed the inception of the project and ultimately what is proposed in this exhibition.

"The creation of development opportunities on the land surrounding the stadium has been predicated on the principal that each proposal must be sensitive and responsive to the stadium and ultimately result in the improvement of the visitor’s experience."

Residents are being asked their thoughts on the proposals.