READERS have shared their thoughts on the proposed plans to transform two city car parks into a new bus hub.

On February 1, the Echo revealed that a new bus hub could be created by redeveloping car parks at Albion Place and Castle Way near the old city walls.

The scheme, that is estimated to cost £2.7m, would improve public transport in Southampton, according to council documents.

Councillors are expected to approve the scheme at a cabinet meeting next Monday, February 7.

READ MORE: Two Southampton car parks could be transformed with new bus hub as part of £2.7m works

The proposals have been met with mixed reactions from Southampton residents.

One reader said the bus hub is in the "wrong location."

They said: "There is only one place in town to have a bus station at, and that is at the Toys R Us site, close to the train station."

Another reader agreed with this idea and said: "Your suggestion of bus station at former Toys R Us location is spot on.

"It is next to train station so can help in combining both forms of public transport."

The Albion Place car park next to Westquay is due to be closed and transformed into a bus hub under council plans

One resident suggested an alternative location in the city centre.

They commented: "I would like to see the buses out of Castle Way altogether.

"The Debenhams site would have been an ideal site for a bus hub. Move all the buses from Bargate and Vincents walk altogether.

"Why do we have a pedestrian precinct dissected by buses?"

One resident said this move may be a loss for city centre visitors: "What a shame. A car park often used at night and for short visits to the town centre.

"Suitable also for vans as well as cars. Lost revenue for the council too."

However, some residents feel optimistic about the proposed plans.

A resident said: "More green space near the walls, it's an excellent plan. Will definitely improve that area. Hopefully completed quickly."

Another added: "Great idea. We do need a better bus hub and to reduce people's reliance on cars."

What do you think about the proposed plans?