Speaking to LBC, Ms Miller said the UK must strive to "stand side by side" with the European Union and seek resolutions to the fractured relationship following Brexit. She says that, despite leaving the bloc, Britain has not moved geographically and must strive to remove the "animosity" from its relationship with Europe. It comes as months of post-Brexit tensions over the disastrous Northern Ireland Protocol trade chaos, fishing quota disagreements with the French and a vaccine blockade have sent UK/EU relations plummeting.

She said: “Scoring political points does not help anybody. “We are going to have to get to a very different place quickly, we have got the Ukraine crisis on the border of the EU, that affects us as well. “It affects us all globally…. Because we have got a country that is the fourth biggest exporter of wheat, while we have crops failing in Africa.” The Remainer noted: “The EU and the UK have got to find a way to work together for the greater good and goal of our global peace. JUST IN 'It's a pandemic!' Row erupts as Gina Miller blames Brexiteers for 'shortages'

“But also to stand side by side, strengthen a new Nato and have a united voice.” She went on to call on the two factions to “get rid of the animosity” of Brexit and “face the reality” of the new relationship between Ms Miller added: “We have left, we still geographically have not gone anywhere, we have major issues coming down the line be it environmentally, mass movement of people. “We have got to find a different way of actually working with our neighbours and both sides using political language that creates faux wars does not benefit anyone!” READ MORE 'It is the law!' Huge row erupts after Truss rocked by move on hated Brexit deal

LBC host Ian Dale joked if she was referring to French President Emmanuel Macron, to which she said she was. In a heated discussion, Ms Miller also said shortages in food, workers and other provisions seen over the last few months in Britain have been fuelled by Brexit as she hit out at Brexiteers for their decision to Leave the European Union. But the comment sparked anger from head of the Reclaim Party and Brexiteer Martin Daubney who hit back at Ms Miller's logic, demanding she consider the impact the Coronavirus pandemic has had on UK supply chains. Responding to Mr Daubney who claimed Britain had relinquished itself from “fracture lines” in the EU following Brexit, Ms Miller, who attempted to take the Government to court over Brexit, hit back claiming there have been huge impacts as a result of Britain’s decision to leave. DON'T MISS

Michel Barnier shamed over EU tactics after attack on Boris [COMMENT] 

Barnier skewered as he attacks Boris on hated Brexit agreement [REVEAL] 

Frost stabs Boris in back in tax hike fury [INSIGHT]