The Prime Minister also expressed his “deep concern” about the continuing tensions in Eastern Europe – and urged for “dialogue and diplomacy” to end the crisis. He made his call after RAF jets were scrambled to see off Russian bombers that flew close to British airspace. Mr Johnson – who visited Ukraine capital Kiev on Tuesday in a show of staunch support for the beleaguered country – spoke to President Putin as the United States announced it will send 3,000 more troops to the region to bolster Nato allies.

Last night East-West tensions continued to escalate, as it was feared there are now around 130,000 Russian troops massed near the Ukrainian border. After Mr Johnson’s call to Moscow, a Downing Street spokesman revealed details of the leaders’ conversation. He said: “The Prime Minister expressed his deep concern about Russia’s current hostile activity on the Ukrainian border. He emphasised the need to find a way forward, which respects both Ukraine’s territorial integrity and right to self-defence. The Prime Minister stressed any further Russian incursion into Ukrainian territory would be a tragic miscalculation.” Russia fiercely opposes Ukraine joining NATO. But during the phone call, Mr Johnson defended the nation’s right to sign up to the military alliance.His spokesman said: “The Prime Minister underscored that, under Nato’s open-door policy, all European democracies have a right to aspire to Nato membership. This right fully applies to Ukraine. He also reiterated that Nato is a defensive alliance.” The spokesman also said: “The leaders agreed that aggravation was in no one’s interest. The Prime Minister stressed the importance of dialogue and diplomacy, and the need to include Ukraine in talks.”

He added: “The Prime Minister and President Putin welcomed communication between the UK and Russia on a number of important issues including climate change, the situation in Afghanistan and the Iran nuclear deal. They agreed to apply this spirit of dialogue to the current tensions in order to find a peaceful resolution.” The Kremlin did not say how Russia would respond to what it described as Nato’s unreadiness to answer Russian concerns. After the call, it said: “Nato’s unwillingness to adequately respond to Russia’s well-founded concerns was noted, while hiding behind references to the alliance’s so-called open-door policy, which contradicts the fundamental principle of indivisibility of security.” It added Mr Putin had drawn attention to Kiev’s “chronic sabotage of the Minsk agreements” – a treaty drawn up in 2014 to end war in the region. Earlier in the day the RAF scrambled fighter jets as four Russian Bear bombers skirted British airspace. Two Cold War-era Tu-95 Bear Hs and two Tu-142 Bear Fs flew close to a “UK area of interest”. But the Russians were intercepted by Typhoons, which took to the skies from RAF Lossiemouth. Our jets also linked up with a Voyager refuelling plane from RAF Brize Norton. The mission was successful and the Bears did not enter UK airspace.

An air force spokesperson said: “Quick Reaction Alert Typhoon fighters based at RAF Lossiemouth, supported by a Voyager from RAF Brize Norton, were scrambled today against unidentified aircraft approaching the UK area of interest. Subsequently we intercepted and escorted four Russian Bear aircraft.” The RAF said it “routinely” intercepts, identifies and escorts Russian aircraft that “transit international airspace within the UK’s area of interest”. In November 2021, it launched jets in response to Russian TU-160 Blackjack strategic bombers that also approached UK airspace. Former UK ambassador to Ukraine Robert Brinkley said he was glad Mr Johnson was “keeping the lines of communication open” with Mr Putin. He said: “I think there’s a real danger of Russia miscalculating the strength of the Ukrainian response if there’s a further Russian military aggression against Ukraine. “The Ukrainians will resist, they’ll fight and they’ve got a lot of experience over the last eight years and they’ve built up their forces. NATO, too, and the West, is ready to oppose, ready to bring in very severe and far-reaching sanctions on the Russian leadership and the Russian economy,” he told Sky News. He said he believed Mr Putin was operating at two levels – seeking to return Ukraine “to Russia’s sphere of influence as a subordinate” and to “push Nato back in Europe to where it was in 1997”.

US President Joe Biden confirmed he will send 3,000 more troops to Eastern Europe as a show of support to NATO allies feeling threatened by Russia. Around 2,000 soldiers from Fort Bragg, in North Carolina, will move will be despatched to Poland and Germany. And approximately 1,000 Germany-based servicemen and women will move to Romania. US Government officials said the troops will be deployed in the “coming days”. As he left an event at the White House yesterday, President Biden told reporters the deployment was “totally consistent” with what he had told President Putin “in the beginning”. “As long as he is acting aggressively we’re going to make sure we can reassure our Nato allies and Eastern Europe that we’re there,” Mr Biden said. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the deployments were not permanent and stressed: “These forces are not going to fight in Ukraine.” President Biden has already put 8,500 troops in the States on heightened alert in case a NATO Response Force is called up and US forces are needed quickly. Mr Kirby said the 3,000 now being deployed are separate and in addition to the 8,500 put on standby last week.

It is hoped that move will deter Russia from attacking Ukraine and avert war in Eastern Europe. The Biden administration is continuing to try to find a diplomatic solution to avoid war. But it has prepared a blitz of economic sanctions should Russia attack. It has also authorised the transfer of weapons and other equipment to Ukraine. President Biden signed off on the military proposals after a meeting on Tuesday with Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General Mark Milley. Mr Austin had discussed the deployments with his counterparts in Romania, Germany and Poland in the past week. While a few hundred American military trainers and special operations forces are inside Ukraine, none of the new forces have been authorised to enter the country. Some of the new troops could be used in the event the US military was called upon to help evacuate the roughly 30,000 Americans who are currently living in Ukraine. On Tuesday, Mr Putin accused the US of trying to provoke Moscow into war, even as he hoped “dialogue will be continued”. The Biden administration has said they don’t think the Russian leader has made a decision whether to invade – but he could do so in the next few weeks.