Speaking to LBC's cross questions, Ms Miller said shortages in food, workers and other provisions seen over the last few months in Britain have been fuelled by Brexit as she slammed Brexiteers for their decision to Leave the European Union. But her comment sparked fury from head of the Reclaim Party and Brexiteer Martin Daubney who questioned Ms Miller's logic, as he demanded she consider the impact the pandemic has had on UK supply chains.

Responding to Mr Daubney who said Britain had relinquished itself from “fracture lines” in the EU following Brexit, Ms Miller hit back claiming there have been huge impacts as a result of Britain’s decision to leave. She said: “Did you say all the other things that are happening, would happen? “All the shortages of staff, and the fact that all these sectors are actually really struggling?” Mr Daubney insisted those same shortages seen in the UK have been seen in Germany. JUST IN 'It is the law!' Huge row erupts after Truss rocked by move on hated Brexit deal

He slammed: “Is that because of Brexit? They have them in America, is that because of Brexit? Ms Miller lashed back: “Actually we don’t have the sort of staff shortages that we have in the UK across most sectors.” But the Brexiteer responded: “Theres was a thing called the pandemic which happened! A lot of people went back to where they were born.” However Ms Miller appeared to disagree as she noted “well that is not actually quite true”. READ MORE 'There is no point' Lord Frost's brutal assessment of Boris plan to appoint new minister

Shortages of fuel, workers, HGV drivers and gas have been compounded by numerous issues ranging from the Coronavirus pandemic to issues with Brexit. According to figures from the Road Haulage Association, there was a shortage of 100,000 HGV drivers in Britain at the end of October. This impacted UK supply chains from food to fuel to delivery of consumer goods. This was blamed on a range of factors including drivers being put off by miserable conditions, which were made worse by service station closures over the pandemic, low wages, drivers off with COVID-19, a backlog at HGV testing centres as well as a lack of drivers from Europe. While foreign workers have also left Britain over fears of Brexit, the EU Settlement Scheme offered 5,823,080 foreign workers either settled status, of which 3,027,230 took, or pre-settled status, of which 2,441,100 took. Michel Barnier shamed over EU tactics after attack on Boris [COMMENT] 

Barnier skewered as he attacks Boris on hated Brexit agreement [REVEAL] 

Frost stabs Boris in back in tax hike fury [INSIGHT]



In a wide ranging discussion on the impact of Brexit, Ms Miller also called on Britain and the European Union to end "animosity" and work together for the "greater good" of global peace. She told the show: "Scoring political points does not help anybody. We are going to have to get to a very different place quickly, we have got the Ukraine crisis on the border of the EU, that affects us as well. “It affects us all globally…. Because we have got a country that is the fourth biggest exporter of wheat, while we have crops failing in Africa.” The Remainer noted: “The EU and the UK have got to find a way to work together for the greater good and goal of our global peace. But also to stand side by side, strengthen a new Nato and have a united voice.” Ms Miller went on to call on the two factions to “get rid of the animosity” of Brexit and “face the reality” of the new relationship between the EU and UK. She added: "We have got to find a different way of actually working with our neighbours and both sides using political language that creates faux wars does not benefit anyone".