Brazen Boris Johnson says he has no plans to quit as Prime Minister, claiming he still has a ‘lot to do’ despite a host of Tories calling for him to go over the partygate scandal.

The PM is fighting to save his premiership following Sue Gray’s report that blasted "failures in leadership and judgment" in Downing Street.

Three further Tories submitted letters of no confidence in the PM in one day today; senior Tory Tobias Ellwood, chair of the Defence Committee; Anthony Mangnall, MP for Totnes; and veteran backbencher and MP for South West Devon, Sir Gary Streeter.

A number of other senior Tories, including Scottish Tory leader Douglas Ross, ex-Cabinet Minister Andrew Mitchell and Sir Roger Gale have also called for Johnson to quit.

But instead the embattled PM has tonight shamelessly dismissed the calls and insisted he will lead the Conservatives to victory at the next election in 2024.

He told The Sun : “I am getting on with the job and I will do so for as long as I have the privilege and honour to serve in this position.

“I make no commentary but I am focussed on the next election.”

“I’ve got a lot more to do."

Do you think the PM should go? Have your say in the comment section

Speaking on the way back from Ukraine, Johnson was asked about the seemingly endless revelations and damning criticism from his former chief aide, Dominic Cummings.

The PM insisted he was not focussed on his critics and would not "accept criticism from the Labour party or anywhere else.

It comes as police have so far received 500 pages of evidence and 300 photos for their probe into 12 alleged events in Downing Street and Whitehall - including several the PM is believed to have personally attended.

A number of gatherings the PM attended in person are not being probed by detectives, including a No 10 Christmas quiz in 2020.

In an eagerly awaited PMQs earlier today, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer made several jibes at the PM- including suggesting he ‘sharpens how he answers questions under interview’.

He told the Commons: “He’s going to need it in the next few weeks."

Sir Keir also hit out at the PM’s false claim from earlier this week when he suggested that as Director of Public Prosecutions he failed to prosecute paedophile Jimmy Savile.

The CPS said he had no involvement in the decision.

As proceedings continued to get heated, Commons Speaker Lindsay Hoyle had to warn MPs not to accuse the PM of lying - which is unparliamentary.

Earlier this evening veteran backbencher Sir Gary Streeter became the third Tory MP to submit a letter of no confidence in Johnson.

He wrote on Twitter : “I previously made it clear in response to the many e-mails I have received about the parties in Downing Street that appeared to break Lockdown rules, that the wise thing to do was to await the report from Sue Gray.

"This has now been received (albeit in truncated form) and I have made my decision.

"I cannot reconcile the pain and sacrifice of the vast majority of the British Public during lockdown with the attitude and activities of those working in Downing Street."

It came months after he described the PM as “absolutely brilliant, but also shambolic.”