Kim Kardashian is turning heads at the moment.

The mother-of-four, who is currently dating Pete Davison, showed off her eye-popping figure in a minuscule thong on Instagram while plugging her SKIMS Valentine's Day collection.

The reality star, who broke up with her estranged husband Kanye West last year, flaunted her gym-honed figure in skimpy swimwear on Wednesday as she posed in the mirror.

Kim filmed herself wearing a simple black bikini in a huge standing mirror in her walk-in wardrobe.

While her swimwear was plain, she managed to make an impact.

The businesswoman has been living her best life with her actor beau Pete Davidson in recent weeks.

She has finally been granted what she has wanted for so long in a relationship - and that's the 'little things'.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star has been dating the SNL comedian since October, and Kim appears to be happier than ever since meeting the 28-year-old.

In recent weeks, the lovebirds were spotted in LA enjoying a no-frills pizza date as Kim beamed while sitting at a little table alongside Pete on the low-key outing.

And it looks as though Pete is treating Kim to everything that she was missing in her previous marriage to Kanye as he continues to open her eyes to a world without designer labels and extravagant dinners.

Pete - who was previously engaged to popstar Ariana Grande - is known for his love of the more subtle things in life, and the humble star appears to be rubbing off on his new lady.

After pictures emerged of the smitten couple looking happier than ever on their chilled pizza date, fans have gushed over Kim's newfound happiness.

"It's the little things that I don't have. I have all the big things. I have everything you could possibly imagine and nobody will ever do it like that - I know that," Kim recently said about their relationship.

"I'm grateful for those experiences, but I think I'm ready for those smaller experiences that I think will mean a lot."

Over the past three months, the 28-year-old has taken the reality TV icon on a number of no-frills dates as the pair enjoyed 'regular' dinners, ice-cream outings, and chilled out movie nights.

They are going from strength-to-strength as they navigate their way through life together.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.