The Teacher viewers were left reeling on Wednesday night, as the latest episode of the Channel 5 drama aired a major twist.

Convinced someone had set her up over an alleged fling with her student Kyle, 15, Jenna Garvey was on the case to clear her name, and find out why she was being tormented.

Early suspects were her colleagues Jack and Nina, with Nina not exactly denying her dislike of the former Head of English - who she replaced following the allegations.

Jack was clearly hiding secrets of his own, which came out in the latest episode amid fans suspecting he was in a relationship of his own with Kyle.

But a huge twist came at the very end of the episode with fans shouting out at their TVs, when it was seemingly confirmed that someone from Jenna's past was potentially behind the whole scandal.

Jenna maintained that nothing happened between her and Kyle in a club toilet, despite his claims that they had sex.

She pleaded guilty to this as due to a blackout from alcohol consumption, she could not remember the events and had no proof it did not happen.

But something Kyle said, that she was never meant to plead guilty, led to her believing she was innocent - and so her investigation into the truth began.

Her friend and colleague Pauline has been on her side, while urging her to not do anything stupid, leading fans to question if she had been involved.

What viewers weren't expecting though was that Pauline's partner, or whoever he is to her, was somehow involved - with fans predicting he is taking revenge on Jenna, due to their clear past link.

Fans are predicting he is Arnold Cleary posing as a man named Brian, and using Pauline to get to Jenna, with a possible motive being Jenna having got him fired at the school they both worked at.

Another fan named Brian as Phillip Larkin and suggested names aside, the person clearly wanted payback - suggesting Pauline might be helping him.

The truth will be revealed in the next episode of the drama, while fans have taken to Twitter to share their theories after the latest bombshell.

One fan said: "So Pauline ’s hubby / whoever is Kyle’s dad, right? And Jenna got him sacked on 4 June 2005 and now he’s ruining her life. Is Pauline in on it? Suspects but not sure? Going to totally go all potty mouthed and say she had it coming?!"

A second added: " Pauline 's HUSBAND?!?! well damn..." as a third tweeted: " Pauline ’s husband!! What the f**k!!"

Another predicted: "think jenna reported philip larkin at hillesden for something which destroyed his life and now him and Pauline are seeking revenge."

A similar theory read: "Arnold Cleary, she worked with him at Hilsden School. And he's got together with Pauline and told Pauline that his name is Brian. And he's only with Pauline to get to Jenna."

Meanwhile another fan said: "WTAF??!!! Is it a coincidence that he's in a relationship with Pauline ?? Is Pauline involved as well?? How the hell does he know Kyle?? Are they related or in a secret relationship?? Arghhhhhh, so many questions!....can't wait for the conclusion tomorrow."

The Teacher concludes Thursday at 9pm on Channel 5.