Kylie Jenner fans believe she has got a fresh set of veneers after they noticed a dramatic change to her smile.

The 24-year-old businesswoman, who is currently pregnant with her second child, sparked speculation she has had cosmetic dentistry done to her teeth after old photos of her as a teen resurfaced online.

Her followers posted a side-by-side comparison photo on Reddit, with one old picture showing her with smaller teeth, while a more recent snap sees her with a brighter smile.

Kylie's loyal fans, who have been watching the Kardashian-Jenner family for years, were left divided by her new teeth.

"Okay I’m so dumb I never even realised she got this but it’s so obvious looking at these photos," one person wrote in the comments on Reddit.

Another shared: "On the first slide. I prefer it to the pic on the right. She looks like a regular, beautiful girl on the left pic."

"They definitely all have veneers. Kourtney definitely has, I see the difference. They don't always shave the teeth down to stumps," a third added.

In recent days, the mum-to-be celebrated daughter Stormi's birthday with a family affair.

She threw a special party for the toddler, with all the important people in her life in attendance.

Kylie, who is dating baby daddy Travis Scott, posted a gorgeous black-and-white snap of their little family on Instagram.

She wrote alongside it: "Our baby is 4. Happy birthday to the girl that changed my whole world."

And the Kardashian-Jenner clan were on hand to wish the youngster a happy birthday with grandmother Kris Jenner commenting: "Happy Birthday precious Stormi. I love you!!!"

The 66-year-old also took to her own Instagram account to gush over the youngster.

She shared a throwback pic of her pecking the tot on the cheek while hugging her close. She captioned the post: "Happy birthday to my sweet little Stormi who is the light of our lives!

"Thank you Stormi for your smile and your laughter that fills every room you walk into! You are the most amazing daughter, granddaughter, cousin and friend and we are all so blessed to have you in our lives.

"You are so smart, so kind, so funny, and so full of passion for everything always. I thank God every day for choosing me to be your grandmother. I love you so much Stormi! Love, Lovey xoxo"

Khloe Kardashian also shared a selection of sweet emojis on Kylie's post, while Kendall Jenner wrote: "4! a full adult."

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.