Britney Spears has thanked her "kind and respectful lawyer" for 'turning her life around'.

The pop star, 40, praised Matthew Rosengart for helping to free her from her controversial conservatorship last year.

Britney had been under the strict control of her father Jamie Spears and co-conservators since 2008.

The mum-of-two had been fighting to end the restrictive legal arrangement she was placed under amid concerns for her mental health.

In news which delighted #freebritney fans around the world, the Circus singer was finally freed from the arrangement in November.

On Instagram, the star shared a picture with her lawyer with the caption: “This man has turned my life around … So many exciting projects ahead !!!!

“We accidentally matched for lunch !!!! Thank you for being so kind and respectful to me always !!!!!!

Britney was able to appoint her lawyer in July after more than a decade of having to use a court-appointed representative.

Mathew, described as a high-power Hollywood litigator, was praised by the singer in October, who said: "“Thankfully I found an amazing attorney Mathew Rosengart who has helped change my life !!!!"

When Judge Brenda Penny ruled Britney's conservatorship should come to an end it meant the Lucky star could regain control of her personal life and her money.

Britney's lawyer asked the judge to end the conservatorship without a medical evaluation.

The singer did not attend the hearing but said in an Instagram post: "I love my fans so much it's crazy!!! I think I'm gonna cry the rest of the day!!!! Best day ever."

Her personal trainer fiance, Sam Asghari, claimed: "History was made today. Britney is Free."

The decision to end the conservatorship closed one of the most talked about chapters in pop music history and gave Britney control over her estimated 60 million dollar (£45 million) estate.

Britney is now able to make her own medical, financial and personal decisions for the first time since 2008.

She can also look forward to her forthcoming nuptials with Sam after the hunk popped the question in September.