Four men have been arrested over the drug overdose death of The Wire star Michael K. Williams, authorities have announced.

The actor was found dead at his Brooklyn home in September 2021.

Damian Williams, the US Attorney for the Southern District of New York, said the accused men were part of a 'drug crew' that allegedly sold heroin laced with fentanyl to Williams.

In a statement attorney Williams called the actor's death part of a 'public health crisis.'

Williams vowed to 'bring every tool to bear' to combat New York's drug epidemic.

At a press conference on Wednesday, he said: "This is a public health crisis. And it has to stop.

"Deadly opioids like fentanyl and heroin don’t care about who you are or what you’ve accomplished. They just feed addiction and lead to tragedy.

"The Southern District of New York and our partners will not give up.

"We will bring every tool to bear and we will continue to hold accountable the dealers who push this poison, exploit addiction and cause senseless death."

A drug trafficking gang had been operating near the actor's home in Brooklyn since August 2020, the Department of Justice and the NYPD said in a joint statement.

Images were released allegedly showing members of the crew executing the hand-to-hand transaction” of fentanyl-laced heroin to Williams on 5 September last year on South 3rd Street.

Irvin Cartagena, 39 , of Brooklyn, who has the DOJ say goes by a the name Green Eyes, has been charged in Manhattan federal court with narcotics conspiracy for allegedly selling the laced drugs to Mr Williams.

He is said to have been arrested in Puerto Rico and will appear in court there on Friday.

The other men - Hector Robles, 57, of Luis Cruz, 56, and Carlos Macci, 70, all of Brooklyn, were charged “as members of the fentanyl and heroin conspiracy” and will appear in court in Manhattan on Thursday.

Michael K. Williams was best known for playing Omar Little on The Wire and Albert 'Chalky' White on Boardwalk Empire.

He was found dead in his Williamsburg, Brooklyn apartment b y his nephew on September 6 2001.

Weeks later, the NYC Office of Chief Medical Examiner confirmed that Williams died of a combination of fentanyl, p-fluorofentanyl, heroin and cocaine, and ruled the death by overdose