Barcelona president Joan Laporta has doubled down on his outlandish claim that Ousmane Dembele is better than Paris Saint-Germain star Kylian Mbappe, despite wanting to get rid of him.

Laporta has previously gone on the record to say he rates Dembele more highly than Mbappe, who is tipped to be a future Ballon d'Or winner and has already been the hero of a World Cup -winning team.

Yet the Barca chief and his fellow board members spent the last 10 days of the January transfer window trying to ship the 24-year-old out of the Camp Nou after Dembele rejected a new contract.

"I still think that Dembele is better than Mbappe," Laporta affirmed after the window slammed shut. "I don't regret having said it because we are convinced of his talent."

Join the debate! Where should Dembele go in the summer? Give us your verdict here.

That was after the president, elected 10 months ago for a second spell in charge, had claimed in December: "We also want him to stay because he is a great player.

"There are required situations in a negotiation with the representatives that they want the best for the player. For me, Dembele excites me, he is better than Mbappe."

Dembele's deal expires at the end of the season, meaning the France international will leave for free in the summer window and give Barcelona no return on their £135.5million investment.

While French compatriot Mbappe - also out of contract with PSG in June - has been far and away the better player since he burst onto the scene with Monaco in 2017, Dembele was, at that time, enjoying an explosive start to life at Borussia Dortmund, where he spent just one season.

But since his days as a Blaugrana player began, a raft of injuries and instability at the club have blighted his career, with rumours of an attitude problem persistently doing the rounds every few months.

Dembele's contract saga reached new heights in the final week of the window, having been told he must find a new club before Monday's deadline and in response, the winger claimed he could still sign a new deal before the campaign is over.

Chelsea were linked due to Thomas Tuchel 's relationship with him at Dortmund, although a move never materialised.

Barcelona sporting director Mateu Alemany told Barca TV of the situation: "We started negotiating with Ousmane's agents some six months ago.

"We have been in constant contact with them since regarding the club's position, stating that the club wants the player to remain.

"He has been offered different deals, we have been on top of the situation. I believe it's been long enough for the player to decide where his future lies."