Katie Price has unveiled the staggering transformation of her daughter Princess’s bedroom as she renovates her Mucky Mansion for a new Channel 4 series.

The docuseries has focused on the former glamour model’s efforts to overhaul her run down Sussex family home, known as the 'mucky mansion', to its former glory after years of neglect and an attack by vandals.

After a hard graft spent repainting old pieces of furniture and installing neon lights into 14-year-old Princess’s room, Katie finally showed her daughter the completed look in Wednesday’s episode of the show.

Katie repainted her bedside table sparkling gold and repurposed a toy chest that had been in Princess’s room as a child - much to her daughter’s amazement when she finally walked in.

Walking in, Princess said: "I absolutely love my room. I'm actually really impressed with how it turned out."

However, the renovations of the infamous West Sussex came after reports Princess "hated the house" - and when Katie found out that they were not keen on visiting it led to her being "upset."

Katie admitted to the camera that Princess "didn't want to stay" in the 10 acre home, adding: "We've all got memories of the house so I want to recreate everything and not have everything the same."

Princess admitted on the programme that she had been unsure about returning, saying: "I didn't really like this house at the start. It was a dark house. There were just so many bad memories in it."

Katie replied saying there was "a lot of heartache" and Princess continued, saying: "I didn't even want to walk on the driveway.

The 14-year-old added: "Before my mum's head was in a bad place but now her heads in a good place, it's a lot better. I'm excited. I didn't think we'd come back here to be honest."

Katie Price said: “It's taken me a long time to like the house and I look around and I don't know what else I could possibly do.”

A source previously told The Sun : “While they were filming, Katie was upset to hear that Princess and Junior hate the house.

“Although she's also said she hates it, she really wants to turn the house around - she's re-doing all of the bedrooms to make it a proper home again.”

Prior to the three part series, Katie said her home would no longer be the 'Mucky Mansion' after the extensive renovations, saying: "I’m making it a home."

She added: "I’m getting my hands dirty and doing a lot of the work myself and, with the help of my amazing family and some brilliant friends, I’m putting the past behind me and rebuilding.

"My house is a bit like my life, it’s being put back together like I’m being put back together."

The star has made a number of documentaries before about her life, including Katie Price: My Crazy Life and Katie Price: Harvey and Me, which followed Katie and her disabled son Harvey as he turned 18.

Channel 4 promised fans would see a different side to Katie in the new series, with show bosses saying: "From designing the perfect bedrooms for her children to overseeing a kitchen makeover and replacing chimney pots, we see Katie like never before, crafting, decorating and upcycling.

“We also see Katie as a mum, daughter and sister as well as hearing about her journey to mental healing as she discusses hitting rock bottom and accepting the need for help.”