Catherine Zeta-Jones has shared a rare snap of her husband Michael Douglas and their two children.

The family are holidaying on Dominica in the Caribbean and the Basic Instinct star, 77, looked every inch the proud dad.

Standing with his arms around daughter Carys, 18 and son Dylan, 21, the actor smiles in front of a beautiful waterfall.

Michael captioned the post: "Good morning @carysdouglas @dylandouglas," followed by a camera emoji with the Insta handle @catherinezetajones.

Carys and Dylan look a lot like their mum Catherine, 52, but fans could also see the resemblance to their dad.

One wrote: "They both have your smile!"

While another gushed: "I know that look of yours Michael…you are as proud as punch to be in the middle of these two and so you should be."

The actor is one of Hollywood's best-known stars however he admitted to feeling embarrassed at Carys' graduation last year when he was mistaken for her grandfather.

He told The Kelly Clarkson Show : "I gotta tell you, Kelly, it’s a little rough when you’re going out the doors and the other parents are saying, 'Oh congratulations… you must be so proud of your granddaughter.'

"I said, 'Well, I don’t know, man. Yeah, okay.' I’m not gonna take it personal, they’re just trying to be nice.'"

Michael also confessed he and the Darling Buds of May star were worried about their children flying the nest.

He said: "It’s scary. It really is. You look at each other and go, 'Well, it’s just you and me, babe.'

"You forget how many conversations you sort of hide behind in terms of talking about your kids and what’s going on next and this and that, and then one day you just look at each other…"

Michael and Catherine have been married for 20 years and tied the knot one year after getting engaged.

Speaking previously about the secret to their relationship's longevity, Catherine told Wall Street Journal: "We have a lot of fun together.

"With any relationship, it wouldn’t be normal if there weren’t any ups and downs.

“The constant is love and respect. We’ve never ever lost our sense of humour."