To ring in the Lunar New Year, Pokémon GO is hosting a special week-long event with various rewards, bonuses, and rare pocket monsters for you to catch.

The Lunar New Year (interchangeably known as Chinese New Year or "Spring Festival") commences on different dates each year. It always falls sometime between January 21 and February 20, but the exact day varies depending on the moon cycles.

In the case of 2022, the celebrations began on February 1, ushering in the Year of the Tiger. If you are unfamiliar with this concept, each Lunar New Year is allocated a specific sign from the Chinese zodiac (which could be anything from the rat to the pig, the ox, or even the dragon).

These animals all represent different qualities that are meant to define the coming 12 months (as well as the personality traits of those who are born in the current year). For instance, the Tiger symbolizes strength, courage and wisdom.

Spring Festival is not observed exclusively in China, with many other countries—like South Korea, Vietnam, and Indonesia—also using the lunisolar calendar. As such, it makes sense for popular video games to join in with the widespread celebrations.

Overwatch is currently in the middle of its Lunar New Year playlist, with limited-time Legendary and Epic skins up for grabs. Meanwhile, Dead by Daylight has been given an extensive tiger-themed makeover that will last for a couple of weeks.

Now, Pokémon GO is finally getting in on the action with its own Lunar New Year event. Here is everything that players need to know.

Pokémon GO Lunar New Year Event Start and End Time

Pokémon GO's Lunar New Year event will be running for almost an entire week.

It starts on Tuesday, February 1 at 10 a.m. local time. This means that no matter where you live, the event will unlock in the mid-morning.

It will then run all the way up to 8 p.m. local time on Monday, February 7, giving you 154 hours to make the most of the event's rewards and bonuses.

Speaking of which, for the duration of Pokémon GO's Lunar New Year event, trainers will benefit from the following bonuses.

For logistical reasons, the extra special trade is available for a slightly longer timespan (making it easier to divide up the daily allowances). This bonus already became active at 4 p.m. ET on January 31 and will continue until 4 p.m. ET on Tuesday, February 8.

Which Pokémon Are Featured in the Lunar New Year Event?

Given that 2022 is the Year of the Tiger, it would make sense for a big cat Pokémon to be the center of attention here.

Instead of going with the orange and black striped Arcanine though, Niantic has instead made Litleo its Lunar New Year mascot. This isn't the most obvious choice, given that the fire-type Pokémon resembles a lion more so than it does a tiger (it even has a mane in the form of its small tuft of hair), but it's close enough.

Litleo will be readily available throughout the event, appearing in the wild, in raids and as a research task reward. There is even a chance that you might get a never-before-seen shiny variant if you are lucky.

It's not the only rare addition that has come out of hiding for Lunar New Year though. Far from it in fact, as there are actually 26 featured Pokémon here in total. Below is a list of every single one and how to unlock them.