A 'hidden' iPhone hack has gone viral after a TikTok user shared the secret button feature on the back of iPhones.

Although Apple's 'Back Tap' feature has been around for a few years, many iPhone users were still shocked to learn it exists and the video garnered over 2,000 comments.

In the video which has been watched 38,000 times, a woman shares how to enable the shortcut on Apple devices using two taps, The Mirror reported.

Aussie TikToker, Elly at @ellyawesometech, posts tech tips and reviews to the video-based app where she's built a viewership of 840,000 followers.

In the video, Elly says: "You're using your iPhone wrong if you’re not using the back tap feature.

"Yes, there’s a secret button on the back of your iPhone."

To enable back the feature, Elly says you need to go to your Settings app, then click on Accessibility, followed by Touch, and then scroll down to the bottom where you can click on Back Tap.

Here, you can choose whether you want to press the logo once or twice to activate it and which shortcuts you want it to do, like opening certain apps, taking a picture, or turning on the torch.

Since being posted, the video has been liked more than 1,600 times and received dozens of comments from people who were keen to try it themselves.

One person said: "Omg it works!!!!!! Thank you!"

Get the latest headlines sent straight to your inbox with our newsletter Did you know you can keep up to date with the latest news by signing up to our daily newsletter? We send a morning and lunchtime newsletter covering the latest headlines every day. We also send coronavirus updates at 5pm on weekdays, and a round up of the week's must-read stories on Sunday afternoons. Signing up is simple, easy and free. You can pop your email address into the sign up box above, hit Subscribe and we'll do the rest. Alternatively, you can sign up and check out the rest of our newsletters here.

A third commented: "I use this to open the QR check-in app when I can’t find it."

While someone else said: "I had this until I found out by accident I have a habit of tapping on my phone when nervous."

However, a few people pointed out that you can only do this on iPhones that have been updated with the iOS 14 software and on devices that came out after the iPhone 6.

Did you know you could do this? Are there any other iPhone hacks you use that other people might not know about? Let us know in the comments.