Cheslie Kryst has been remembered in a tearful tribute by her Extra co-star and friend Rachel Lindsay, following her death by suicide on Sunday morning.

Kryst, 30, leapt to her death from a New York City high-rise apartment building, New York Police Department confirmed.

Hours before her tragic passing, North Carolina-raised Kryst shared a photo of herself on Instagram, alongside the caption: "May this day bring you rest and peace."

As news of her death continued to send shockwaves throughout the entertainment industry, Lindsay broke down in tears as she shared memories of her time with Kryst, who became an Extra correspondent months after her 2019 Miss USA win.

Speaking with co-host Billy Bush, The Bachelorette alum Lindsay said, per People: "I think the word that I feel the most is very unsettled. And as I got to know her, outside of what you see, I just couldn't get over how she was always there for you. And then it just makes you think, 'Were you there enough for her?'"

As tears streamed down her face, Lindsay went on to tell Bush that Kryst was "inspiring" to her and that she "respected" the rising star, who worked as a lawyer before she was crowned Miss North Carolina back in 2018.

"She and I went to dinner and we talked for hours about everything," Lindsay recalled. "My book was just being finished, she was still working on her book. We talked about that, we talked about different struggles, we talked about being the strong Black woman.

"And it's like, [those] conversations, I think, 'Should I have pushed and asked her a little bit more when it came to that?' The sky was the limit for her."

During the show, a special segment was dedicated to Kryst, showing many of her fun-filled moments during the time that she worked within the Extra fold.

"This is how we'll remember our friend," said Bush in the voiceover. "Cheslie at her very brightest. Always happy, always vivacious, which is why we are so heartbroken, as today the world joins us in mourning."

She was also shown interviewing a host of household names, including Oprah Winfrey, Meryl Streep, Lady Gaga, Lizzo and Jamie Foxx. The show covered tributes that were shared by such celebrities as Amy Schumer, Snoop Dogg, Bernice King, and Beyoncé's mother, Tina Knowles.

Also on Monday, Lindsay took to Instagram to post a glamorous photo of Kryst as she shared a heartfelt tribute to her late friend.

"Cheslie...this is how I want to remember you," she wrote. "Your beautiful smile, your infectious spirit, and your kind soul. You lit up every room. You impacted every single person who had the pleasure of getting to know you.

"You always left a lasting impression. You were fabulous, beyond intelligent, beautiful, supportive and warm-hearted. You inspired me with every thing you stood for and represented. I can't believe I am writing this...I will miss you forever. Praying so deeply for your family."

A statement shared on behalf of NBC TV show Extra read: "Our hearts are broken. Cheslie was not just a vital part of our show. She was a beloved part of our Extra family and touched the entire staff. Our deepest condolences to all her family and friends."

Kryst's family said that the TV personality "embodied love and served others" in a statement shared hours after her death.

"In devastation and great sorrow, we share the passing of our beloved Cheslie," read the family's statement. "Her great light was one that inspired others around the world with her beauty and strength. She cared, she loved, she laughed and she shined.

"Cheslie embodied love and served others, whether through her work as an attorney fighting for social justice, as Miss USA and as a host on EXTRA. But most importantly, as a daughter, sister, friend, mentor and colleague—we know her impact will live on."

If you have thoughts of suicide, confidential help is available for free at the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. Call 1-800-273-8255. The line is available 24 hours every day.