Schools across the nation are using this week to indoctrinate students with progressive activism using a curriculum promoted by the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement, a parent group has warned.

During the “Black Lives Matter at School Week of Action,” which began on Jan. 31, public school districts from Boston to Seattle are teaching lessons that correspond to core BLM values, such as “Diversity and Globalism,” and “Trans-Affirming,” “Queer Affirming,” and “Collective Value.”

The lessons are based on 13 “Black Lives Matter Guiding Principles,” including a call for “Black Villages,” which is “the disruption of Western nuclear family dynamics and a return to the ‘collective village’ that takes care of each other,” and a commitment to “dismantle cisgender privilege and uplift Black trans folk.”

“Everybody has the right to choose their own gender by listening to their own heart and mind. Everyone gets to choose if they are a girl or a boy or both or neither or something else, and no one else gets to choose for them,” reads a teaching guide on how to use “age-appropriate language” to introduce the BLM principles to children as young as those in kindergarten.

At least a dozen school districts are participating in the Week of Action, according to Parents Defending Education (PDE), an organization known for documenting incidents of injecting social justice advocacy into classrooms.

One of the districts embracing the BLM agenda is Denver Public Schools. PDE noted that Denver’s Centennial Elementary School, which “shared their excitement” about this year’s Week of Action, not long ago stirred up controversy because of a “families of color playground night” event that many saw as racial segregation.

Meanwhile, in Boston, the Boston Teachers Union sent out a newsletter celebrating the Week of Action. The newsletter includes a link to the aforementioned teaching guide “to help educators facilitate critical conversations connecting the media they’ve engaged with to the movement.”

“The ‘Black Lives Matter at School’ material often carries the official branding of the Black Lives Matter organization, which has been riddled with controversy over alleged misappropriation of funds and the purchase of multimillion-dollar homes by its founder,” PDE said in the release.

According to the website for BLM at School, the movement started in Seattle in 2016, when thousands of educators, along with hundreds of families and students, came to school wearing BLM shirts. The BLM at School curriculum has since been endorsed by a number of organizations and individuals, including the American Civil Liberties Union, National Education Association, and Boston University professor Ibram X. Kendi, whose works on “anti-racism” are widely hailed by proponents of critical race theory (CRT).

An outgrowth of Marxism, CRT interprets society through a Marxist dichotomy between “oppressor” and “oppressed,” but replaces the class categories with racial groups. Proponents of CRT see deeply embedded racism in all aspects of American society, and demand “anti-racist” policies such as race-based redistribution of wealth and power along the perceived lines of “racial inequity.”