Tributes are pouring in for actor Moses J. Moseley who has died at the age of 31.

Police are launching an investigation into the death of the actor who is known for starring in The Walking Dead.

His manager Tabatha Minchew confirmed the news of his death on Monday.

"Everyone loved Moses. He never met a stranger. He loved his fans as much as his family and friends. He was always excited to get auditions and work," Minchew said in a statement, per The Independent.

"He was a great friend for 10 years or more," she said. "He was the kind of person who you could call in the middle of the night if you needed to talk or needed anything. He will be deeply missed by so many, his friends, family, costars and fans."

She confirmed that the star's body had been found in Stockbridge, Georgia, south-east of Atlanta in Henry County.

Reports suggest that Moseley may have died by suicide and TMZ reports that the cause of death was a gunshot wound, according to a family member.

Moseley posted his final Instagram post just one week ago, when he participated in the social media trend—the 10-year challenge hashtag.

"I'm late but here's my #10yearchallenge #instagood," he wrote and shared a decade-old photo of himself alongside a more recent one.

Another person added: "I'm at a loss! This one really shook our walking dead family!"

One well-wisher commented: "Wow!! Unbelievable!!! Man we had such great times on set of my music video! Great dude... Gone too soon... RIP Brother!!"

Another comment reads: "Man. A sweet soul gone too soon. RIP."

Many people are sharing tributes and condolences to Moseley over on Twitter.

"Heartbroken to hear of the passing of @MosesMoseley Just an absolute kind and wonderful human being Broken heart You will be missed my friend. #TWDFamily," tweeted Walking Dead alum Jeremy Palko.

The Walking Dead's Twitter account shared the message: "Our thoughts and prayers are with our #TWDFamily member Moses J. Moseley."

One person wrote: "Just heard some sad news....Moses Moseley, who played one of Michonne's walker pets on The Walking Dead, has passed away.... Sending prayers to his family at this very difficult time...."

Moseley had a recurring role on The Walking Dead between 2012 and 2015 as one of Michonne's (Danai Gurira) zombies. His other acting credits included HBO's Watchmen and the 2013 film The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.

If you have thoughts of suicide, confidential help is available for free at the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. Call 1-800-273-8255. The line is available 24 hours every day.