Prince Andrew's accuser is seeking testimony from a royal aide who her lawyers believe may have information about his visits to Jeffrey Epstein.

Judge Lewis Kaplan submitted a formal request on behalf of Virginia Giuffre to British authorities for evidence from Robert Olney.

Andrew's former equerry is named in Jeffrey Epstein's little black book under "Duke of York," a court filing states.

They want to ask the aide about any communications he had with Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell or Giuffre and about the prince's visits to Epstein's homes.

Giuffre says she was forced to have sex with Andrew in London, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands while a 17-year-old sex trafficking victim.

A court filing reads: "Mr. Olney is [Prince Andrew's] former equerry, and his name appears in Jeffrey Epstein's phone book under 'Duke of York.'

"Mr. Olney thus likely has relevant information about [Prince Andrew's] travel to and from Jeffrey Epstein's various properties during the relevant period, and his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, who [Virginia Giuffre] alleges procured her for sex trafficking and forced her to engage in sex acts with [Prince Andrew].

"Because [Prince Andrew] denies ever having met or abused [Virginia Giuffre], such information is directly relevant to a disputed fact to be adjudicated at trial."

Court documents show Kaplan requesting the High Court in London obtain Olney's testimony by April 29, 2022, "or as soon as practicably possible thereafter, in person or by remote videoconference as appropriate."

A similar request has been made for evidence from Shukri Walker, who says she saw the prince at nightclub Tramp, in London, with a young woman.

Giuffre says Epstein, Maxwell and Andrew took her to Tramp the night they first had sex in 2001.

A court filing reads: "Ms. Walker has stated publicly in the press that she was a witness to [Prince Andrew's] presence at Tramp during the relevant time period with a young woman who may have been [Virginia Giuffre].

"Ms. Walker has therefore stated herself that she is a potential witness, and would thus be relevant to this dispute because [Virginia Giuffre] contends that [Prince Andrew] abused her in London after visiting Tramp together, while [Prince Andrew] denies being at Tramp on the night in question or having ever met [Virginia Giuffre]."

The duke's lawyer, Andrew Brettler, has requested testimony from Giuffre's husband, Robert, and from her therapist, Dr. Judith Lightfoot.

The prince's legal team attempted in January to get the case against him thrown out on several grounds, including a 2009 settlement agreement between Giuffre and Epstein.

However, Judge Kaplan rejected his arguments and ordered a trial, which is likely to take place some time after July.

A source close to Andrew previously told Newsweek: "Given the robustness with which Judge Kaplan greeted our arguments, we are unsurprised by the ruling.

"However, it was not a judgement on the merits of Ms Giuffre's allegations. This is a marathon not a sprint and the Duke will continue to defend himself against these claims."