In November 2019 NSC leaker Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman testified on day 3 of the Adam Schiff Trump Impeachment Show Trial.

Democrats attempted to impeach Trump in their second coup attempt for congratulating the Ukrainian president and asking him if he had anything on the Bidens. Months later after the contents of Hunter Biden’s laptop were released it confirmed that the Bidens were indeed a crime family using their positions to garner millions from several countries including Ukraine in a global quid pro quo scandal.

Ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee Devin Nunes (R-CA) straight up asked Vindman during the open impeachment hearing if he discussed the July 25 Trump-Zelensky phone call with anyone outside of the White House.

Vindman testified that he spoke to two people about Trump’s call to Zelensky — George Kent, a State Department employee and ‘someone in the intelligence community’ about Trump’s phone call — Vindman would not name the second person.

House Intel Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) quickly interjected when Nunes began to drill down to find out which agency this second anonymous person worked for.

Schiff said he wanted to “protect the whistleblower” and wouldn’t let Vindman answer.

Nunes then pointed out that Vindman previously testified in a closed-door deposition that he DID NOT know the identity of the whistleblower and if that were true then how would he know to keep the second person’s name private?

But during his public testimony, Vindman admitted to being the primary source of the leak to the whistleblower (Eric Ciaramella).

It was later discovered that Vindman also lied about the contents of the call. Trump did not offer the Ukrainian official a quid pro quo. Joe Biden did.

In his memoir, Vindman later described himself as the whistleblower in Trump’s sham impeachment trial.

So, once again Vindman discredited himself and admitted he lied once again under oath to Congress.

On Wednesday Alexander Vindman, not satisfied with his first 5 minutes of fame, announced he was suing Donald Trump, Jr, Rudy Giuliani, and others for witness intimidation in the sham impeachment show trial of Donald Trump.

The Marxists sure are bold these days.

ABC News reported this without any shame.

Former Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman has filed a lawsuit against Donald Trump Jr., Rudy Giuliani, former White House Deputy Chief of Staff Dan Scavino and former Trump White House official Julia Hahn, alleging they engaged in a conspiracy of witness intimidation against him over his testimony in then-President Donald Trump’s 2019 impeachment. Vindman, who was one of the few officials to directly listen into the July 2019 phone call between former President Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, outlines in the lawsuit what he describes as “an intentional, concerted campaign of unlawful intimidation and retaliation” over his role in Trump’s impeachment. “This campaign of intimidation and retaliation has had severe and deeply personal ramifications for Lt. Col. Vindman,” Vindman’s lawsuit says. “It also left a stain on our democracy.”

What a pathetic loser this guy is.