Archbishop Carlos Maria Vigano from Italy shared with us his letter to the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) and the Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith (CDF). He also shared a letter from Dr. Massimo Citro, M.D. to Dr. Gwyneth Spaeder.

He also shared his message that was published at the Church Militant. Here are some of the thoughts that he shared:

The multiple Vatican endorsements of the criminal mass-vaccine campaign confirm the full adherence of the hierarchy to the globalist vulgate, without taking even the slightest account of the serious critiques of the so-called vaccines…

The Pontifical Academy for Life is no exception. It has become an organ of neo-Malthusianism, even to the point of declaring that subjecting oneself to inoculation with the experimental drug is an act of love and a moral duty, incontrovertibly denying not only the evidence of the facts but also the existence of a global plan that has deliberately caused this psycho-pandemic in order to bring about a ruthless reduction of the world population (especially the elderly) and impose forms of control and restriction of the natural rights of citizens.

If it is surprising neither that the deep Church is totally subservient to the deep state, nor that Bergoglio wants to put himself forward as a candidate for the presidency of the “religion of humanity” that the New World Order intends to establish, on the other hand we see that the pandemic represents only one aspect of the complex network of complicity between the globalist oligarchy, the financial power of the pharmaceutical companies, international institutions and national governments all over the world.

Looking at the gene serum as if it were a real vaccine that prevents a serious illness is useless because its effectiveness in preventing contagion is zero, and COVID is not a fatal disease if treated promptly.

But, in order for the truth to triumph and the guilty to be condemned, it is necessary to open our eyes, recognizing the crisis of authority both at the political and religious levels.