Metropolitan Police Commander Paul Brogden, who is leading this year’s operation, said: “I would urge everyone to exercise caution, listen to government advice and celebrate the New Year in the comfort of their own homes, not the homes of family and friends.

“The public can expect to see officers deployed across the capital, supporting communities and focusing strongly on the few people intent on breaching and ignoring the guidance put in place to keep everyone safe.

“As we have throughout the year, if we become aware of planned events that breach Covid regulations, we will engage with organisers or venues to make them fully aware of the legal consequences and encourage them to cancel.

“Although the New Year is almost upon us, now is not the time for complacency or to meet with others and hold parties of any kind.

The police warning comes as London hospitals come under increased pressure with surging infection rates leading to more people requiring treatment. Meanwhile a further 20 million people were put under Tier 4 restrictions as of midnight. That means three quarters of the population of England are under the strictest rules.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock said people "cannot let up" now in the fight against the virus, with the health service under strain from increasing numbers of Covid-19 patients.

A Government advertising campaign to "See in the New Year safely at home" is running throughout Thursday, reminding people of the virus's easy spread and that around one in three people who have the infection have no symptoms and so could pass it on without realising.

"I know how much we have all sacrificed this year and we cannot let up. Over 600,000 people have now been vaccinated and we are close to beating this virus.

"Now more than ever, we need to pull together to save lives and protect our NHS. If we continue to do our bit by staying at home, we can get through this together."

“It is almost certainly true that the NHS has not yet seen the impact of the infections that will have occurred during mixing on Christmas Day and that is also unfortunately rather sobering,” Prof Van-Tam said.

He said: “I must ask you to follow the rules where you live tomorrow night and see in the New Year safely at home.

“That means not meeting up with friends or family indoors, unless they’re in the same household or support bubble, and avoiding large gatherings of any kind.”