Jonathan Mellis, 35 years old and already an old timer at DC Gitmo, has emerged as an activist from within its walls. Mellis has assisted The Gateway Pundit in obtaining letters from all of his fellow J6 detainees as we continue to expose the truth about the political persecution of January 6th.

“We have to get their stories out. They are good men and need help,” said Mellis. “It breaks my heart to see them suffering and losing hope. It’s been over a year since January 6th and still no trials. Sometimes we feel like we will die in here.”

Mellis’ case is of special interest to the public because his trial can finally expose the truth to the world about how Trump Supporter Roseann Boyland really died and the violence of Capitol and DC Metro Police that day. According to the Defendant’s “Motion for Reconsideration of Pretrial Detention”, his actions were in response to witnessing the “plight of Roseann Boyland”. On a side note, Mellis was also seen protecting Officer Michael Fanone, who has since retired from the police force to join another government agency called CNN.

According to J6 attorneys, the DOJ continues to pressure these men into taking ridiculous pleas deals to avoid trails that will show what really happened on January 6th and just how evil they are for persecuting these men with little evidence.

“The J6 trials will be the real January 6th Committee,” said Pete Santilli, radio host and J6 Advocate.

PLEASE HELP MELLIS HERE.

Mellis has been charged with attacking a police officer, specifically Lila Morris, the officer seen brutally beating Rosanne Boyland who died that day. We exclusively reported on the Gateway Pundit that Boyland did not die from a drug overdose like the mainstream media and DC Coroner reported. Multiple witnesses have emerged that say she was killed by police brutality and many of the men incarcerated in DC Jail right now say they were defending her and Victoria White (another woman severely brutalized by police).

“When I go to trial, it will expose Police Officer Lila Morris and what she did to my fellow patriot Roseann Boyland,” said Mellis. “I am being accused of assaulting Officer Morris after this police woman was seen hitting Rosanne’s body. So my trial will show the world the video and what happened with Rosanne.”

Mellis is one of approximately 5 plus men who are imprisoned at DC Gitmo that are accused of “assaulting police” near the West Capitol Steps. These incidents all occurred around the time a DC Metro Police Officer was seen beating the bloodied unconsious body of Rosanne Boyland (she died) and in proximity to the brutal beating of Victoria White. The majority of these men have no violent history, and “Back The Blue”. What would make patriotic men like these swing hockey sticks and bats and hurl objects in the direction of a police line?

“This never happened at a Trump rally before, so why now?” asked Tina Ryan of Citizens Against Political Persecution. “We now know the truth. The police were attacking defenseless women and Trump supporters. Period. These men were provoked and defending others. The question is, did the police act on their own accord or was there a directive from above that police antagonize the crowd?”

Please help Jonathan Mellis afford a qualified trial attorney that will help bring the true story of what happened to Rosanne Boyland on the West Capitol Steps to light, and exonerate the men who say they were defending her. The cost of a trial attorney is unaffordable for these regular American men- according to Citizens Against Political Persecution the cost to take one of these cases to trail and avoid a crooked plea deal is between $100,000 – $250,000. A pre-trial attorney generally costs between $50,000 – $100,000. Obviously most of these men are no longer working and many have small children at home.

According to Mellis and other prisoners, there are videos they have seen as part of their discovery that are under “court order”, which means the public cannot see them (and possibly never will). These videos show incredible violence on the part of police as they antagonized Trump supporters, seemingly provoking peaceful crowds to become agitated.

DC Police refuse to penalize or acknowledge any wrongdoing on the part of Morris. She was seen allegedly beating someone who died, but like Ashli Babbitt’s killer Lieutenant Michael Byrd she has yet faced no consequences. She continues to enjoy her freedom and “celebrity status” as a January 6th police officer. Compare this to men like Jonathan Mellis who tried to defend the actual dead woman this police officer sadistically brutalized- he is locked up for assaulting this violent police officer. He has lost everything and is rotting away in prison facing up to 40 years behind bars.

PLEASE HELP JONATHAN HERE AND DONATE TO HIS LEGAL FUND.

“I would never want to hurt a cop. I respect the police. But you are stuck between a rock and a hard place when you see a cop beating up a citizen,” Mellis continued. “Do you intervene and try to prevent that person’s death or do you watch them die? So many people say they were reacting to what they witnessed that day- police brutally beating women and teargassing and shoving people on top of each other. Most men I know would never let a woman die in front of him.”

See video here of DC Metro Police Officer Lila Morris beating dead Trump Supporter Rosanne Boyland on J6:

Unfortunately the mainstream media refuses to pick up Roseann Boyland’s name even though there is video to substantiate her brutal beating by Police Officer Lila Morris around the time of her death on Capitol stairs. Would it take Donald Trump saying her name at a rally, the way he did Ashli Babbitt?

Roseann Boyland’s death allegedly by J6 “hero police” does not fit the phony January 6th narrative that Biden Regime propaganda arms like The January 6th Committee, CNN & certain Social Media companies have created- which is that the people where attacking the Government on January 6th in an Insurrection like manner. The video and facts continue to emerge to show that it was the POLICE PROVOKING AND ATTACKING THE PEOPLE. The questions that still needs answering- who did they get those orders from?

These questions hopefully will get answered if we help men like Jonathan Mellis get a Conservative Trail Attorney to fight this for all of us. Please help him here.

Here is Jonathan’s full heartbreaking letter and pleas for help:

I feel like I have been buried alive. The darkness has closed in and the world has forgotten about us. The American people are totally unaware of the cruel and unusual treatment I have had to endure along with about three dozen other January 6 detainees. We are in the DC jail under such conditions that would make your skin crawl if you witnessed it with your own eyes. This old jail has a reputation going back decades for being Hell on Earth. I assure you that it is a special kind of Hell for the unlucky Trump supporters who find themselves inside these walls. I was arrested almost a year ago. Since February 16, 2021 I have spent the vast majority of my life under strict solitary confinement. We are currently on 22 hour per day lockdown as I write this letter. I have also lived this last year of my life without being allowed to see my loved ones faces. We are not even offered video visitation like the rest of the jail. I feel lost and alone. In a weird way I am glad my family can’t see me because I look horrible. We are not offered shaving or barber services ever and only rarely do we have access to fingernail clippers. With long hair and a big beard I look like a caveman castaway. I am also pale from lack of sunlight and sickly from the terrible jail food. The food here is simply disgusting and lacks the nutritional value and portion size appropriate for a grown man. Add this to the black mold circulating through the vents and the putrid brown water we are forced to drink, then you will start to understand why we all look so sickly. Along with the solitary confinement for this last year I have also lived under the constant threat of violence from the same correctional officers tasked with watching us. We Jan 6ers are in our own pod locked in cells by ourselves. There has been multiple times when a group of racist and hateful officers will open someone’s cell door in the middle of the night and beat them. We are all very aware and alert when doors open at night. To live on this kind of high alert for an entire year is exhausting and harmful to ones mental health. Being surrounded by the unbridled hatred of DC correctional officers every day causes a sense of hopelessness to set in. Whenever certain officers begin to like us they are removed from working our pod and we never see them again. We are the most respectful and well-behaved inmates this jail has ever had. We have been told this a lot. Yet the reasons for officers to target one of us in the middle of the night range from us singing God Bless America too loud, to one of us getting in an argument with one of the officers for refusing to give him toilet paper. I have personally been threatened and called racial slurs multiple times by officers, and even been refused meals. We live under the clear and present danger of correctional officers who listen to lies from CNN and the Democrat politicians. Our food has been spiked with cleaning chemicals on several occasions as retaliation when this jail gets in trouble because of us. Like when this jail failed the surprise inspection from the US Marshals and lost their federal contract. Or when a court finally held this jail in criminal contempt for refusing one of us, who has cancer, medical treatment. There have even been a couple of Jan 6ers sexually assaulted by officers in this jail. The jail administration does not care about our safety or well being. Deputy Warden Kathleen Landerkin has made this clear with over 40 of her personal social media posts. She says things publicly like, “F*** all Trump supporters.” and she clearly hates white men. This brings me to my last point. We are diverse. We are white, black, brown, Arab, Christian, Jewish, straight, and even transgender. This Patriot Pod in the DC jail looks like America. Even though we are enduring serious violations of our Constitutional rights and violations of our dignity, we still sing the Star Spangled Banner every night at 9pm. We love this country. There was no insurrection on January 6. We are good men I promise. I hope everyone out there are living your lives happily and lovingly. I pray that all of you are doing your part to make the world a better place. Love your neighbors and protect your family. Focus on being the best version of yourself. Don’t let the truth of the torturous conditions that I am enduring get you down. I am strong and will never give up on loving this country. Please pray for us, pray for our country, and never give up. Please help my legal fund. They have locked me in a tiny cage. I cannot work or make money being locked up behind bars or else I would do anything I could. They have tied my hands. I need a trial lawyer and they are so expensive. Fellow Americans- I have no where else to turn. PLEASE HELP JONATHAN HERE AND DONATE TO HIS LEGAL FUND. Cara Castronuova is a co-Founder of C.A.P.P. (Citizens Against Political Persecution and The People’s January 6th Commission. Contact her directly at [email protected] She is an Activist, Investigative Journalist, 2-Time Boxing Champion, Celebrity Fitness Trainer and Television Personality. You can watch her on Newsmax at 10PM EST every Saturday night on “Wiseguys”. You can follow her on & Twitter or Instagram @CaraCastronuova. She is currently banned on Fakebook & suing them for defamation of character. You can contact her via the C.A.P.P. website at www.CitizensAPP.us or directly www.caracastronuova.com if you have any tips or would like to volunteer.