Wanton destruction is traumatic. The fact that a person, a mob, or even a governing body acts in a “wanton” manner ought to initiate justice fueled with righteous indignation. “Wanton” describes actions that are malicious, unjustified, and cruel. It is behavior that is deliberate and unrestrained. This action is consumed with self-serving edicts and mandates. This action is the epitome of “xenophobic” (to use a term bandied by the Leftists). The strategy is to divide and conquer—emphasize the differences; exaggerate the differences; encourage factiousness based upon differences. And this game plan works very well.

America! Will you never learn? While you casually shrug off the wantonness of POLS, your freedoms and values are being erased? A nation, once a world empire, fell because of the same indifference evident in the USA. The walls were breached, and the citizens were led out as captives through the smoldering ruins. Outside the city was a prophet who asked, “Is this nation’s ruin of any concern to you?” The query was never answered but the understood “No” is in the text. The citizens thought “this will never happen.”

America! Will you never learn? You act as a spoiled school child who thinks he is exempt from all requirements. He never learns and eventually has to face his failure.

America! Will you never learn? History’s chronicles inform you of evil’s designs and the only remedy is a heroic challenge that confronts, conquers and marks as criminals those who sought to Rule the Ruled.

This is NOT a “conspiracy.” This is factual history. This is not a footnote in history but is voluminous! The evil rule of tyranny will arise throughout civilization. History seeks to caution about this wanton tyranny.

America! Look at recorded history and be alarmed at the position we currently occupy.

The trucker protest in Canada must be applauded. A similar protest in the USA and Europe is long overdue. The protest legitimately expresses anger at the onerous, illegal, and discriminatory “mandates.” These are 100% peaceful— the Burn Loot Murder “mostly peaceful protests” and the ANTIFA insurrections.

Frame the trucker protests in its historical perspective you immediately uncover an evil tyranny seeking justification for the Rulers to dominate the Ruled ! History is teaching the USA a significant lesson. Will the USA listen and learn?

Lenin and the Protestors in the Urals

Advocates of Marxism herald the value of protestors for their cause. Our courts and law enforcement release these “protestors” and their subversive, criminal and destructive actions are excused because they were “protesting.” They get a free pass to burn, loot, murder, and stir insurrection because they are “protestors”!

This wanton attitude is displayed by commending certain protestors and condemning other protestors. Those who instigate destruction are accepted while those who civilly protest are imprisoned. “The legs of the lame are not equal” (Proverbs 26:7). Inequality in civil matters cannot be ignored. Wanton actions make the POLS, the Judiciary and the Executive despicable, contemptible and forces ridiculous positions.

Marxism embraces protestors only if they are useful. If protestors are not useful then they are removed. Marxism embraces the “worker,” only until the worker protests the Elite. Protestors who are counter-productive to the Ruling Elite are subjected to punishment.

In 1920 Lenin confronted protestors—these belonged to the “worker class.” However, the protestors in the Urals were not protected. In fact, Lenin called for the execution of “a large number of strikers for the crime of sabotage.” Earlier there was a worker strike at the Putilov factory. This retaliatory punishment of the Putilov workers is significant because it is commonly thought the workers strike at Putilov was the catalyst for the Bolshevik Revolution. It is interesting that the location of protestors for Lenin’s revolution was a few years later the very location of a cruel response to opposition protests! (Please do not miss the irony.)

How did Marxism treat opposition protestors? He arrested 900 workers and executed 200 of them without trial. It is estimated that thousands were executed for participating in strikes in the USSR during the Lenin dictatorship. Do we not witness a similar response to protestors who are opposed to the Ruling Elite today?

Do you see the historical validation? Protests are embraced only if they work to satisfy the agenda of the Ruling Elite. This is a simple historical fact. Under Lenin, you could protest if you upheld the Party’s view. If you protested the Party’s view you were arrested, imprisoned and executed without legal protection. Under Marxism there is no legal protection for the opposition! Lenin himself urged the execution of “a large number of strikers”!

Lenin gained the support of the workers by promising them peace, land, and bread if they embraced the ideals of Engles/Marx communism. Lenin gave the workers hope for a better future under communism. But it was a LIE! Lenin manipulated words to feed the population’s yearnings but brought constant war, seizure of lands, and starvation. Once again historical validation is found in recent times. Obama boasted of “hope and change.” But history records it was a LIE! He removed hope and his change resulted in a divided population ruled by racism!

Lenin used terror, torture and murder to impose his totalitarian regime even as he claimed to be defending the “workers.” From November 1917 to January 1924, Lenin’s legacy leaves these facts:
• More than a million people murdered for political or religious reasons
• Hundreds of thousands of workers and peasants killed for striking
• 240,000 killed in the suppression of the Tambov rebellion
• More than 50,000 White Russian prisoners of war executed
• Between 3.9 million and 7.75 million deaths from famines among Russians, Kazakhs and Tatars

Two protests separated by ten years offers an interesting insight to how the Rulers view the protests of the Ruled. The first protest was on December 14, 1970. It was a “workers protest” against the inequity between the Political Elite and the common citizen. The demonstration was peaceful. They were attacked by the military police of the communist regime. The Gdańsk protestors increased in numbers and that brought more repression by the Rulers. Intimidation increased. The Rulers sent Army forces equipped with machine guns and heavy weapons to Gdańsk. This violent repression left seven dead, several hundred injured and some 500 protesters arrested.

The following day, the Rulers ordered soldiers to fire on the demonstrators. The Marxist Rulers used wanton cruelty to suppress valid protests. How were the protestors treated by the Ruling Elite?
• 550 tanks rolled out to meet the protestors
• 2,100 military vehicles of other types were mobilized
• 150,000 cans of smoke and other chemicals were thrown at protesters
• 46,000 bullets of various caliber were fired

All wanton actions were excused based on “ensuring public order/safety.” One would hope this wanton savagery is only in the “past.” However, addressing the possibility of counter-protests in our nation, Biden commented: “If you wanted or if you think you need to have weapons to take on the government, you need F-15s and maybe some nuclear weapons.” Lenin could not have used such wanton threats to intimidate counter-protests! USA, are your listening??

The Ruling Elite and Protestors in our current time

Using the perspective of history, look at current comments by the Rulers regarding any counter-protests. It does not take a brain-surgeon or rocket scientist to connect the dots.

The trucker protest in Canada and similar protests being urged in the USA and European nations, have been characterized with the most insidious insinuations of insurrection! Trudeau accuses these protestors of “hateful rhetoric” and “violence.” The MSM has joined the propaganda effort by announcing the trucker convoy is a “cult.” This imagined slander is designed to divert attention from the fact the Rulers are embracing Marxism’s evil.

The horrendous treatment of those arrested, persecuted, hunted down by the FBI, wrongly imprisoned, and treated with wanton savagery following the January 6, 2021 protest in Washington, DC is an embarrassing truth for the Elite Rulers. The unbelievable statement, “I hope they go to jail…they deserve it” embraces the Marxist agenda to quash any opposition to the Ruling Elite. And this wanton group includes the DEMS/REPUBS/COURTS as they march in lockstep with the illegal, immoral and uncivil Administration occupying the White House.

The U.S. Constitution is trashed by the Rulers because it opposes the Marxist philosophy. The absolute “inalienable” rights of individuals are sacrificed on the altar of Political Lust—money and power fuel the ambition of the puppet masters pulling the strings of those elected to uphold and defend the citizen’s right of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness because justice is meted without bias.

The treatment of protests today, follow the Marxist playbook of yesterday. The prophet’s lament, “Are you not concerned about the failed state of your nation?” is a query to be answered by the American citizen today.