The new exercise platform BeachSweat blends Peloton’s pizzazz with a spicy dash of OnlyFans. The R-rated, subscription-based website offers 30-minute high-intensity live and on-demand workout classes, led by busty, bikini-clad bombshells.

Naturally, social media’s heart rate is racing. Clips of toned, bouncing, glistening goddesses on spin bikes, in yoga poses and pumping iron have fetched upwards of 350,000 views on TikTok, luring potential subscribers.

“I saw these ridiculously beautiful girls teaching exercise classes, and I thought, ‘Oh my gosh, this is genius. I have to check this out,’ ” BeachSweat client Mark Lester, 41, told The Post.

After taking a free trial class, Lester quickly ponied up the $14.99 monthly subscription fee to get hot and sweaty with the Miami-based knockouts.

“Like the rest of the world, I set a New Year’s resolution to lose weight,” said the traveling wine importer, who is also based in Miami. He previously worked out with Peloton’s classes but found them a bit lacking.

“I wasn’t getting everything I needed from Peloton, and when I tried working out with regular fitness equipment on my own, I realized it’s hard to stay motivated,” Lester said. “So I figured, if I’m going to ramp up my workouts this year, why not do it with these really attractive women?”

BeachSweat — which debuted three weeks ago as one of many pandemic-birthed, gym-free cyber workout programs — prides itself on pioneering what they call “visually inspired fitness.”

“People get motivated to get off the couch and burn some calories when they see a sexy girl sweating and working out in a bikini,” Alexa Collins, BeachSweat’s co-founder and cycling instructor, told The Post. In just under a month, the platform has already welcomed a staggering 30,000 subscribers.

While helming each of her weekly classes — during which attendees can expect to burn about 250 calories — the 26-year-old OnlyFans model keeps viewers moving by “wearing a cute little [two piece], getting very sweaty and keeping things really fun and flirty.”

Collins and her fellow instructors enjoy a six-second broadcast delay while live-streaming workouts in their skimpy suits; if they experience a wardrobe malfunction, the stream’s producers can switch cameras and angles to avoid accidentally flashing viewers.

Collins and her team first came up with the concept for the risqué regimen in early 2020, when the pandemic left people looking for at-home exercise options.

“So we thought, ‘Why not hire all these gorgeous girls, who love to workout and are in shape, to do what they do on a platform that teaches other people how to sculpt their bodies in a visually entertaining way,’ ” the toned blonde said.

While some might find the sexy workouts a tad trashy, Collins ignores the haters. “We’re all about being positive, and focusing on the positive people who’ll stay on the platform and enjoy it with us,” she said.

Unlike other fitness platforms, BeachSweat also has a “tip jar” feature. Customers can show a little monetary appreciation to instructors who have given them a good workout.

“After each class I feel refreshed, rejuvenated and my blood starts flowing a little better,” said Lester, who has been feeling the burn with the BeachSweat sirens five days a week. “So I’m happy to thank them for their service with a $5 to $10 tip.”

“The girls are helping out tremendously,” he added, noting that watching the instructors get slick with sweat helps him stay focused.

“They don’t go topless or anything,” said Lester, who ultimately hopes to shed 25 pounds and has already dropped a few. “But they keep it interesting, which makes you want to finish the class and look forward to doing another one.”