Tom Curry, who has emerged as a leading contender to be named the England captain on Thursday, has been given a ringing endorsement by the Sale director of rugby, Alex Sanderson, to solve Eddie Jones’s leadership crisis against Scotland.

At 23 years old Curry would be England’s youngest captain since Will Carling but he has long since been earmarked for the role and, with both Owen Farrell and Courtney Lawes out with injury, he has been widely tipped to lead the side.

Curry has assumed the responsibility in recent matches when neither Farrell nor Lawes have been on the field and though Jones has delayed naming a replacement until two days before England’s Six Nations opener against Scotland at Murrayfield, Sanderson says the Sale back-rower is ready to make the step up.

Curry was on Wednesday among a group of England players to put the Duchess of Cambridge through her paces at Twickenham following the announcement she would be taking over as the Rugby Football Union’s patron. She was greeted by Lawes – a strong sign he will assume the captaincy when he is fit – while other options for Saturday include Ellis Genge, Maro Itoje and Luke Cowan‑Dickie.

Jones has also named co-captains in the past and he and his coaches have stressed the need for players to share the responsibility in the absence of Farrell and Lawes.

“It’s huge for Tom,” Sanderson said. “He has grown into that role and he seems to be relishing it, if he does get the captaincy. When he came back off the Lions [tour] there was talk about his leadership qualities and it was in the air then.

“He is 23 years old with the potential and the mastery of the game that he has got this is one of those things; how can he get better? This is the one area in terms of leadership where he can make strides as he gets more experienced and this is the natural progression for him.”

Jones was waiting on Wednesday night on the availability of Joe Marchant before finalising his rookie side as England seek only a second win in five matches against Scotland. Marchant, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, is going through the isolation protocols and his test result on Thursday morning will be pivotal in determining availability.

Without Marchant, England would be missing six of the side who beat South Africa in their last match when the 25-year-old excelled alongside Henry Slade in midfield. He had been earmarked to reprise that partnership but Elliot Daly is thought to have impressed upon his recall to the squad and could slot in at either centre – where Mark Atkinson is also an option – or wing while Jack Nowell, Max Malins and Ollie Hassell-Collins are also contenders for the wide positions. In the pack, Alex Dombrandt is hopeful of a first Six Nations start with Charlie Ewels, Nick Isiekwe and Ollie Chessum vying for a second-row spot.

Perhaps Jones’s most crucial call, however, is whether to stick with Marcus Smith – the spearhead of his “New England” project – or turn to George Ford who is more suited to the conditions forecast for a match Jones’s side can ill afford to lose and considerably more experienced.

Almost half of Jones’s training squad have never featured in the Six Nations, including Freddie Steward, who has stood out in his brief international career at full‑back but is yet to make an appearance for England away from Twickenham. “It’s something that’s very hard to replicate – that hostility from the crowd,” Steward said. “It’s definitely going to be a new experience. We’re working really hard in the week trying to prepare ourselves mentally for that hostility and trying to make sure it doesn’t affect our performance.”

Jones has been given a boost with Sanderson confirming Manu Tuilagi is available for selection for Sale against Harlequins this weekend. England’s match against Italy the following week may come too soon but Jones would welcome the 30-year-old’s availability for the remainder of the competition.