People in Linlithgow campaigning to stop the UK’s biggest pub chain from changing the “extremely offensive” name of the town’s historic Black Bitch tavern have vowed to fight on after it was announced it would become the Willow Tree.

Greene King announced on Wednesday that it would change the name of the popular 17th-century pub in West Lothian despite concerted opposition to the move, which has angered and upset many residents since it was first announced in November.

The proposal to rebrand the Black Bitch – which was named after a 13th-century legend about a black greyhound who brought food to her starving master – has resulted in protests, a 12,000-signature petition and a challenge by the local council. It has also been blamed for a rise in online racist abuse towards the town’s BAME community.

But the Greene King chief executive, Nick Mackenzie, said his commitment to changing the name was “unwavering”. The company has publicly apologised for its founder’s links to transatlantic slavery and has already changed the names of two pubs called the Black Boy, as well as another called the Black’s Head.

“There’s been plenty of publicity around those who don’t agree with our decision, but we’ve also had letters of support from people in Linlithgow,” he said.

“This is a difficult balance and throughout this we have continued to highlight our respect for the history of Linlithgow. Our decision is not meant to diminish or denigrate the heritage of the town but at the same time we recognise that language has changed and the name can be extremely offensive to people.”

Alistair Old, who leads the campaign to retain the pub’s name, challenged the scope of Greene King’s consultation with local people and said that the action committee planned to hold a town meeting “on what appropriate action to take in the face of this appalling insult to Linlithgow”.

He said: “This company continues to pretend that they have some sort of mandate to proclaim that the historic name of the Black Bitch is racist and offensive, when nearly 12,000 people have signed a petition telling them they are wrong. West Lothian council have asked them to stop defaming the town’s heritage, but the removal of the name sends out that exact message.”

The new name references a nearby statue of drover Katie Wearie and Katie Wearie’s willow tree, which was planted originally in 1832 to mark the Reform Act in Scotland.

Last week, West Lothian council unanimously agreed a cross-party motion urging Greene King to “reflect on the wishes of the community and issues raised”.

The composite motion read: “For generations people who were born within the boundary of the royal burgh have been proud to be known as Black Bitches given their association with the town. The origin reason given for the name change, that it was racist effectively, now makes this a slur on the reputation of these residents.”