On Monday’s broadcast of the Fox Business Network’s “Mornings with Maria,” Rep. Tony Gonzales (R-TX) said that unless there is a policy shift on the border, the problems will continue, and one possible improvement is giving Border Patrol agents the technology to take down drones that are smuggling drugs near the border. Gonzales said, [relevant remarks begin around 1:10] “We know what the issues are, and it starts with a policy change. We can add all these other things, but until a policy shift happens, we’re only going to continue to see all of these horrific things that are happening. ”He added, “I was speaking with an agent a couple of weeks ago, and this is what he told me. In one sector in particular, there [are] over 2,000 intrusions via drones. And what is happening is these small little drones are carrying fentanyl. They start in Mexico. They cross our border with these little drones. They drop the package, sometimes in a football field, at a school, somebody picks it up and takes it on from there. Let’s arm these Border Patrol agents with technology that allows them to […]

Read the whole story at www.breitbart.com

They say we have to go big or go home. We’re trying to go big and bring the patriotic truth the the nation, but we need help. Readers may or may not realize that over the past year, we’ve been bringing more conservative news and opinion outlets under our wing. Don’t take our expansion as a sign of riches; all of the “acquisitions” have been through sweat and promises of greater things to come for all involved. As a result, we’ve been able to bring together several independent media sites under a unified vision of preventing America from succumbing to the progressive, “woke,” Neo-Marxist ideologies that are spreading like wildfire across America. The slow and steady reopening of America is revealing there was a lot more economic hardship brought about from the Covd-19 lockdowns than most realize. While we continue to hope advertising dollars on the sites go up, it’s simply not enough to do things the right way. We are currently experiencing a gap between revenue and expenses that cannot be overcome by click-ads and MyPillow promos alone (promo code “NOQ” by the way). To overcome our revenue gap and keep these sites running, our needs fluctuate between $3000-$7000 per month. In other words, we’re in the red and hemorrhaging. The best way you can help us grow and continue to bring the truth to the people is by donating. We appreciate everything, whether a dollar or $10,000. Anything brings us closer to a point of stability when we can hire writers, editors, and support staff to make the America First message louder. Our Giving Fuel page makes it easy to donate one-time or monthly. Alternatively, you can donate through PayPal as well. As the world spirals towards radical progressivism, the need for truthful journalism has never been greater. But in these times, we need as many conservative media voices as possible. Please help keep NOQ Report and the other sites in the network going. Thank you and God Bless,

 JD Rucker

All ORIGINAL content on this site is © 2021 NOQ Report. All REPUBLISHED content has received direct or implied permission for reproduction. With that said, our content may be reproduced and distributed as long as it has a link to the original source and the author is credited prominently. We don’t mind you using our content as long as you help out by giving us credit with a prominent link. If you feel like giving us a tip for the content, we will not object!