The Conservatives’ flagship policy to close the gap between the north and the south has been blasted as “smoke and mirrors” as the government struggled to shift attention away from Boris Johnson’s future.

But it was criticised by opposition parties as lacking in ambition and detail, while business leaders and think tanks warned it could be scuppered by a lack of funding.

At the forefront of the white paper was the promise of “London style” powers and mayors for the rest of the country, as well as “12 big missions” around areas such as the economy, housing, education and transport that the government wants to achieve by 2030.

Gove said “overlooked and undervalued” communities needed to be allowed to “take back control” of their communities and that his plan “lays out a long-term economic and social plan to make opportunity more equal”.

He added: “It demonstrates that this people’s government is keeping faith with the working people of this country by allowing them to take back control of their lives, their communities and their futures.”

“The sum total of our ambition for our coastal and industrial towns, our villages and our great cities, is a history on the rise of the Roman Empire and ministers scurrying around Whitehall shuffling the deckchairs, cobbling together a shopping list of recycled policies and fiddling the figures — is this really it?”

“I’m not surprised he was too embarrassed to come here today and to defend it himself, it’s so bad that even the secretary of state has privately been saying that it’s rubbish.”

Referring to the Treasury’s decision to write off £4.3 billion of Covid loans, Nandy said: “They have given more to fraudsters than they’ve given to the north.”

Among the 12 missions — which Gove said the government would be held to account for — are that pay, employment and productivity will rise in every part of the UK, that the number of people successfully completing high-quality skills training will have “significantly increased” by 200,000 per year and that by 2035 life expectancy will rise by five years.

He also unveiled 20 new urban regeneration projects, starting in Wolverhampton and Sheffield but later extending across the Midlands and northern England, with £1.8 billion in new housing projects.

However, there were doubts over how much new money would be committed to the schemes contained in the plans.

Former northern powerhouse minister Jake Berry said he welcomed the paper but called for more direct investment in the north of England, while Andy Street, the Conservative West Midlands mayor, said it would “finally address the imbalance of opportunities across the UK”.

“The lack of new funding announced today, and an approach to devolution that appears to be quite centrally controlled, suggest more needs to be done before the reality of these plans meets the rhetoric.”