Calls to boycott Walmart grew on Wednesday after a member of its social media team went rogue and trolled a powerful Republican senator for saying he would challenge President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.

The official Twitter account of the world’s largest retailer trolled Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri after he became the first member of the upper chamber to voice his support for contesting the electoral college vote.

Hawley, the junior senator from Missouri who was elected in 2018, said that ‘some states, particularly Pennsylvania, failed to follow their own state election laws.’

‘At the very least, Congress should investigate,’ he said in a statement.

'For these reasons, I will follow the same Democrat members of Congress have in years past and object during the certification process on January 6 to raise these critical issues,' Hawley explained.

Hawley did not provide any evidence for his claims.

Shockingly, the Twitter handle run by Walmart, the Arkansas-based retailer worth more than $408billion, responded to Hawley, writing: ‘Go ahead. Get your 2 hour debate.’

The tweet ended with the hashtag #soreloser. It was later removed.

Walmart released a statement on its Twitter account apologizing to Hawley.

In the tweet, which was directly addressed to Hawley’s Twitter handle, the company said: ‘The tweet published earlier was mistakenly posted by a member of our social media team.

‘We deleted the post and have no intention of commenting on the subject of certifying the electoral college.

‘We apologize to Senator Hawley for this error and any confusion about our position.’

Hawley responded to Walmart’s trolling, writing: ‘Thanks Walmart for your insulting condescension. Now that you’ve insulted 75 million Americans, will you at least apologize for using slave labor?’

In another tweet, Hawley wrote: ‘Or maybe you’d like to apologize for the pathetic wages you pay your workers as you drive mom and pop stores out of business.’

Hawley’s swipe at Walmart is a reference to the company’s controversial business practices, which critics say include paying extremely low wages to employees and importing low-cost products from China.

Within hours of the dust-up, the #BoycottWalmart hashtag was trending on Twitter as angry supporters of President Trump cited the company's longstanding ties to China.

One Twitter user slammed Walmart for its 'cheap Chinese products' and blamed it for 'Main Street being murdered because Big Business is in bed with China not Americans.'

Trump opponents, meanwhile, claimed that Republicans have long ignored Walmart's controversial business practices until its Twitter account took aim at Hawley.

'The culture that hates "cancel culture" has #BoycottWalmart trending because their feefees are hurt,' tweeted one Twitter user.

Next Wednesday, Vice President Mike Pence will preside over a meeting of Congress when the results of the Electoral College vote are read and tallied.

It's generally a formality, but as Hawley pointed out, Democrats did object to certain states' vote counts, including during the 2016 and 2004 races.

Pence refused to sign on to the plan that would upend Congress certifying the election for Biden.

Earlier this week, Rep. Louie Gohmert and Arizona's slate of Republican Electoral College 'electors' filed a federal lawsuit to get a judge to say Pence has the power to pick pro-Trump electors when he presides over the Congressional session where he will finalize the presidential election results.

Politico reported late Tuesday night that a legal filing in the case indicated that Gohmert and the electors' lawyers had reached out to Pence in advance, trying to work out a deal - and it was shot down.

In order for challenges to be debated, both a House member and a senator have to sign on to an objection.

House Democrats raised concerns after the 2016 race over state tallies in Alabama, Florida, Michigan, Texas, Mississippi and the Carolinas, however no Democratic senator joined the effort.

Biden, at the time serving as vice president, gaveled down the protests because they weren't joined by a senator.

In the 2004 cycle, then California Sen. Barbara Boxer objected alongside several House Democrats to Ohio's results citing 'numerous, serious election irregularities' that led to a 'a significant disenfranchisement of voters.'

At the time, CNN reported that the Democrats made their move to gain support for future election reform - not because they thought it would actually overturn the results of the election, which was won by Republican President George W. Bush.

Unlike Trump, who will applaud the effort, John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic nominee, put out a statement saying he would not take part in the protest.

Trump has asked his supporters to march on Washington, D.C., for the third time since his election loss.

Once Hawley and House Republicans object to a state's vote count, lawmakers will go back to their respective chambers and discuss the merits of the objection for two hours.

Only a majority vote is needed to overrule the objections.

With the Democrats controlling the House and several Republicans in the Senate publicly saying that the election is over - and Biden is the winner - Hawley's objection will trigger a delay, but not flip the results to Trump.

Trump, however, has refused to concede the election to Biden and continued to rant about widespread voter fraud, of which there is no evidence, on Wednesday during his Florida vacation to Mar-a-Lago.

Prior to Hawley's announcement, Trump had been pressuring incoming Alabama Sen. Tommy Tuberville to register objections on January 6.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell asked senators not to engage because they'd be forced to go on the record and by voting in favor of Biden's win, could be in danger of being taken down by pro-Trump forces within the Republican Party.

On December 15, the day after the Electoral College met, McConnell came on the Senate floor and congratulated Biden as president-elect.

Speaking to reporters at her weekly press conference, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi responded to Hawley's announcement by pointing out that it wouldn't change the election's outcome.

'I have no doubt that on next Wednesday, a week from today, that Joe Biden will be confirmed by the acceptance of the vote of the Electoral College as the 46th president of the United States,' Pelosi said.

Jen Psaki, Biden's incoming White House press secretary, was equally confident on a Zoom call with reporters later Wednesday afternoon.

'This is merely a formality,' she said. 'It certainly should be treated as such by people who are covering it and regardless of whatever antics anyone is up to on January 6 President-elect Biden will be sworn in on January 20.'

Psaki also pointed out that there was a precedent of election losers certifying the results.

'Vice President Biden presided over the certification of Donald Trump's win in 2017, Vice President Nixon presided over the certification of John F. Kennedy's win, Vice President Gore presided over the certification of George W. Bush's win,' Psaki said.

Biden didn't run for president in 2016, but supported his party's Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.