This week has seen numerous western countries suddenly drop most of their Draconian COVID-19 restrictions and lockdown measures with immediate effect.

Once again, restaurants, bars, and entertainment venues – will all be allowed to open again, including hospitality venues serving alcohol throughout normal evening hours as they did before the pseudo pandemic was declared back in March 2020.

In the wite collar sector, working from home will no longer be mandatory, and pointless authoritarian decrees limiting the number visitors in private homes will also be removed.

In the segment, Greg Gutfeld and guests react to western countries dropping all COVID restrictions, and discuss why most people are well past their breaking point when it comes to senseless government and corporate mandates. Watch:

YOU CAN HELP SUPPORT 21WIRE’S INDEPENDENT MEDIA PLATFORM HERE

The Liberty Beacon Project is now expanding at a near exponential rate, and for this we are grateful and excited! But we must also be practical. For 7 years we have not asked for any donations, and have built this project with our own funds as we grew. We are now experiencing ever increasing growing pains due to the large number of websites and projects we represent. So we have just installed donation buttons on our websites and ask that you consider this when you visit them. Nothing is too small. We thank you for all your support and your considerations … (TLB)

Comment Policy: As a privately owned web site, we reserve the right to remove comments that contain spam, advertising, vulgarity, threats of violence, racism, or personal/abusive attacks on other users. This also applies to trolling, the use of more than one alias, or just intentional mischief. Enforcement of this policy is at the discretion of this websites administrators. Repeat offenders may be blocked or permanently banned without prior warning.

Disclaimer: TLB websites contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available to our readers under the provisions of “fair use” in an effort to advance a better understanding of political, health, economic and social issues. The material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving it for research and educational purposes. If you wish to use copyrighted material for purposes other than “fair use” you must request permission from the copyright owner.

Disclaimer: The information and opinions shared are for informational purposes only including, but not limited to, text, graphics, images and other material are not intended as medical advice or instruction. Nothing mentioned is intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.