Former CNN President Jeff Zucker won’t be alone in his sudden professional demise, according to reports from reliable sources. Revelations of his sexual relationship with CNN VP Allison Gollust came in the midst of an investigation into former CNN host Chris Cuomo’s escapades and more revelations about other prominent figures are expected to drop soon.

On today’s episode of The Midnight Sentinel, independent journalist Kyle Becker revealed what he’s hearing on the grapevine. It started following Cuomo’s firing from the network when there was rumbling he had “dirt” on Zucker and others, including audio recordings. As Jon Nicosia reported last year.

Becker said, “One of my friends who I worked with a long time ago named Jon Nicosia — he was one of the masterminds behind Mediaite back in the day — he called it. He said Cuomo has got dirt on Zucker. He said this back in December. I hear that he has audio tapes on Zucker.”

This would jibe with what we’re hearing elsewhere, that during the network’s investigation of Chris Cuomo, he’s spilling the beans on others at the network. It seems practically impossible to imagine Cuomo ever getting his job back at CNN, so it would appear that this is more out of the famous vindictive nature of the Cuomo family.

“He told me this is just the tip of the iceberg,” Becker continued. “Lemon is coming, too. Don Lemon, he’s been in hot water, don’t forget. There are other things coming at CNN.”

Lemon, who has claimed to be one of Chris Cuomo’s close friends, quickly changed his tune after Cuomo’s firing.

“Watch out for Don Lemon. Watch out for Jeffrey Toobin… there might be more to the story than we all shockingly, finally learned about earlier with this… Zoom Gone Wild with Jeffrey Toobin,” Becker said. “There’s more of a shakeup coming for them and it will be interesting to see who Jeff Zucker’s replacement is going to be because the shakeups are coming and it can’t just be purely from sexual misconduct.”

Two separate sources with knowledge of the circumstances behind Zucker’s departure confirmed that they’re hearing the same rumors. They say Chris Cuomo and his brother, former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, have dirt on multiple people at CNN and they’re in the process of getting their revenge.

My discussion with Becker crossed a wide spectrum of topics, but we focused on the Covid narratives and the downfall of mainstream media. Becker believes CNN’s attacks on Joe Rogan as well as the music industry’s attacks on Spotify will only work to make them stronger.

The CNN saga is not over, not by a long shot. If reports from Kyle Becker and others are correct, we’re in for a lot more drama from the failing fake news network.

Big Pharma’s Five Major Minions that Everyone, Vaxxed or Unvaxxed, Must Oppose This is not an “anti-vaxxer” article, per se. It’s a call for everyone to wake up to the nefarious motives behind vaccine mandates, booster shots, and condemnation of freedom. The worst kept secret in world history SHOULD be that the unquenchable push for universal vaccinations against Covid-19 has little if anything to do with healthcare and everything to do with Big Pharma’s influence over the narrative. Unfortunately, that secret has stayed firmly hidden from the vast majority of people because of the five major minions working on behalf of Big Pharma. What’s even worse is the fact that Big Pharma’s greed is merely a smokescreen to hide an even darker secret. We’ll tackle that later. First, let’s look at the public-facing ringleaders behind the vaccine push, namely Big Pharma. But before we get into their five major minions, it’s important to understand one thing. This is NOT just an article that speaks to the unvaccinated. Even those who believe in the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines must be made aware of agenda that’s at play. Let’s start with some facts. The unvaccinated do NOT spread Covid-19 more rampantly than the vaccinated. Even Anthony Fauci acknowledged the viral load present in vaccinated people is just as high as in the unvaccinated. This fact alone should demolish the vaccine mandates as it demonstrates they have absolutely no effect on the spread of the disease. But wait! There’s definitely more. This unhinged push to vaccinate everyone defies science. Those with natural immunity may actually have their stronger defenses against Covid-19 hampered by the introduction of the injections which fool the body into creating less-effective antibodies. Moreover, the push to vaccinate young people is completely bonkers. The recovery rate for those under the age of 20 is astronomical. Children neither contract, spread, nor succumb to Covid-19 in a statistically meaningful way. What they DO succumb to more often than Covid-19 are the adverse reactions to the vaccines, particularly boys. All of this is known and accepted by the medical community, yet most Americans are still following the vaccinate-everybody script. It requires pure cognitive dissonance and an overabundant need for confirmation bias to make doctors and scientists willingly go along with the program. Yet, here we are and that should tell you something. Before I get to the five major minions of of Big Pharma, I must make the plea for help. Between cancel culture, lockdowns, and diminishing ad revenue, we need financial assistance in order to continue to spread the truth. We ask all who have the means, please donate through our GivingFuel page or via PayPal. Your generosity is what keeps these sites running and allows us to expand our reach so the truth can get to the masses. We’ve had great success in growing but we know we can do more with your assistance. Who does Big Pharma control? It starts with the obvious people, the ones who most Americans believe are actually behind this push. Our governments at all levels as well as governments around the world are not working with Big Pharma. They are working for Big Pharma. Some are proactive as direct recipients of cash. Others may oppose Big Pharma in spirit but would never speak out because they know anyone who does has no future in DC. This may come as a shock to some, but it’s Big Pharma that drives the narrative and sets the agenda for the “experts” at the CDC, FDA, WHO, NIH, NIAID, and even non-medical government organizations. Most believe it’s the other way around. They think that Big Pharma is beholden to the FDA for approval, but that’s not exactly the case. They need approval for a majority of their projects, but when it comes to the important ones such as the Covid injections, Big Pharma is calling the shots. They have the right people in the right places to push their machinations forward. That’s not to say that everyone at the FDA is in on it. Big Pharma only needs a handful of friendlies planted in leadership in order to have their big wishes met. We have seen people quitting the FDA in recent weeks for this very reason. The same can be said about the other three- and five-letter agencies. Too many people in leadership have been bribed, bullied, or blackmailed into becoming occasional shills for the various Big Pharma corporations. Some have even been directly planted by Big Pharma. That’s the politics of healthcare and science that drives such things as Covid-19 “vaccines.” Read the rest of this story, but please be sure to donate first if you can.