In January, parents of kids under 5 told me they were in a state of despair and semi-panic; emotionally, they were at the lowest I’d heard them since the pandemic’s beginning in March 2020. The wait for vaccine approval for under-5s (which may be over soon) was a part of that. But another part of their upset was the fact that the expensive child care they were paying for was often unreliable: Children’s day care classes were routinely getting shut down because of too many coronavirus cases or because kids were getting sent home for quarantines of 10 days or longer based on exposure.

To state, again, the obvious: If little kids aren’t in some kind of care situation, many parents can’t work effectively, and many can’t go to work at all. The less-discussed corollary is that even if their kids are quarantined, they typically have to keep paying child care providers in order to hold on to their kids’ spots. For most parents I spoke to, there was no test-to-stay option at the day cares where they sent their kids, so they were often stuck at home with healthy children who didn’t have the coronavirus but were at home bouncing off the walls.

When I spoke to child care providers last week, things were bleak from their point of view as well. “The last two years is nothing compared to the last two months,” said Celine Krimston, the vice president and chief operating officer of Educational Enrichment Systems, a group of child care centers and preschools that serves lower-income families in the San Diego area.

On many days, her phone starts ringing before 6 a.m. with the news that one of her staff members has tested positive for the coronavirus. From there, it’s a scramble to figure out which parents need to be notified that their kids can’t go back to school for several days. She said even two years into this, it breaks her site directors’ hearts to have to close a classroom, because they worry about how the families they serve — many of whom work hourly in-person jobs — are going to pay their bills and feed their kids if they can’t go to work.