The first words out of Biden’s first video when he announced his candidacy in 2019 were Charlottesville, Virginia. And he explicitly talked about that being a defining moment for this nation, the battle for the soul of the country. And he had images and pictures of the pro-Confederate white nationalist, white supremacist march. And he explicitly rooted his candidacy in opposition to that. We haven’t heard a whole lot about that type of leadership and that type of concern from Biden since then. I mean, they supposedly have a whole kind of racial initiative that they announced in January or February of last year, and I’ve heard nothing about since. So the party needs to confront the fight that is happening in the country, and do so explicitly, and offer itself as an explicitly unapologetic multiracial entity that is fighting for democracy and is fighting for justice for people from all different backgrounds. But I feel they’re reluctant to do that because they fear that they’re going to alienate some white voters by saying they’re too much for equality for people of color. And that’s the essential dilemma. My lens on the electorate, I think, is different than what Lanae was talking about, because I personally don’t think that the labels are very descriptive, in terms of moderate, liberal, et cetera. And even if you look at the different communities of color, they have different labels, but 90 percent of Black voters always vote Democratic and a majority of white voters always vote Republican. And so the composition of the Democratic Party is 47 percent people of color, in terms of the Biden election. And it’s very important that there’s a meaningful minority of whites who are for racial justice and racial equality. And that’s what I argue is the new American majority. So the party needs to inspire and clarify and convey a sense of urgency to that electorate to turn out in large numbers. And when that happens, we win.

Right? Somebody who is very, very top-level in Georgia said to me recently, there are no swing voters in Georgia. To this question of what Democrats need to do to win, Democrats need to mobilize voters to turn out. And they need to mobilize the new American majority, which is largely people of color and, though, progressive whites who are consistently with us. The Democratic vote is always roughly low 30s to maybe periodically 40, 41 percent of the white vote, and then it’s always roughly two-thirds people of color, 80 plus percent African-Americans. When that vote is mobilized in large numbers and sees the imperative and the urgency, and when there’s massive investment in those communities, then we win. When voters of color and the new American majority does not turn out in large numbers, we lose. That’s what happened in Virginia. It wasn’t that there was this big, persuadable electorate, and they had decided they liked Biden in 2020, and then they switched their opinion and they went over to Youngkin. What happened is that Youngkin tapped that same white fear that Trump tapped and people turned out in large numbers to support him, whereas McAuliffe ran a much more milquetoast campaign that did not convey a sense of urgency and importance to turn out to vote. And then we lost. And that is the strategic direction. Are we going to organize, inspire, and mobilize our voters, or are we going to try to persuade this very small grouping of people who, I would argue, are very hard to get, and aren’t even that large, and are not as large as the number of people of color coming into the electorate every year? The majority of people turning 18 are people of color. Most of them are more progressive. That offers far more upside than trying to get the, you know, Obama-Trump voter in a diner in our beloved Midwest.

It is not a theory I subscribe to wholesale, but I do want to win. And so here’s how I think about it. I think actually what you’re saying is take your Democratic values, lay out all the things the Democratic Party stands for and the progressive movement stands for, and then focus on the things that voters actually like within that realm. And I think that that is a really good idea because, like I said, there aren’t enough people in our base to make majorities in the swing districts we need to win to keep the House or in the Senate seats. And that’s really how we’re going to make progress on any of those things. So when there are activist movements that are talking about their passion, that is absolutely something they should do. I was very much involved in the marriage work. That was what I worked on for about five years. And I think we need those folks to push the envelope, to say we need to go further than this. But when you are a politician, you have to win, and you have to assemble a winning coalition. And for me, I just look at the data. So Democratic data firm Catalyst does a lot of analysis about the electorate from election to election. And what they saw in 2018, when we had a blue wave that brought in this majority in the House, was that 89 percent of the Democratic gains from 2016 to 2018 came from persuading vote switchers, not from turning out new voters who didn’t show up in 2016. So if 9 in 10 of our increased margin is from persuading vote switchers, there are vote switchers out there. And so when you just look at the data, there just simply aren’t enough people for turnout to deliver us. And we’ve seen over and over again that people do change their minds if we’ll appeal to them.