Part of the process can be automated, but not all. For example, the Berkeley economists originally assumed that all of the $800 billion Paycheck Protection Program, one of the government’s pandemic relief efforts, went to workers. But the economists revised that figure based on new research by a team led by David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, showing that a majority of the funds ended up benefiting business owners and their shareholders and creditors.

Saez and Zucman are left-leaning economists who favor a tax on wealth, but Zucman said the Realtime Inequality meter isn’t ideological. He said it was well received in an online presentation that the authors made on Jan. 14 to Dennis Fixler, the chief economist of the Bureau of Economic Analysis; Heather Boushey, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers; and Danny Yagan, the chief economist of the Office of Management and Budget, who collaborated with Saez and Zucman on research before taking leave from Berkeley.

A spokeswoman for the Bureau of Economic Analysis declined to comment on the Realtime Inequality meter but pointed me to a December working paper by Fixler and others showing that the agency is working on providing a similar measure. “The primary obstacles to producing such estimates are the lack of available quarterly microdata and inability to follow households over time,” the paper says. The other agencies did not respond to requests for comment.

In an interview on Tuesday about the Realtime Inequality meter, Zucman said, “I think it’s going to be a paradigm change in how people analyze the economy.” He added: “Before, we talked only about growth because there was no data about inequality. I think this tool is going to change the conversation. I’m not saying it’s the final word. It’s the first step. It’s a prototype.”

Economics is the least socioeconomically diverse of the major doctorate-granting fields of study by key measures, according to research by Robert Schultz of the University of Michigan and Anna Stansbury of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Among U.S.-born recipients of Ph.D.s between 2010 and 2018, just 14 percent had no parent with a bachelor’s degree or higher, and 65 percent had at least one parent with a graduate degree.

By both measures, economics was less diverse than any other major field, including engineering and mathematics. The top-ranked programs are even less diverse, they found. The researchers limited their study to U.S.-born Ph.D.s (who are about 30 percent of the total in economics) because parental education has different implications for socioeconomic status in other countries.