Canada’s Freedom Convoy truckers have gained support not just all over Canada, but all over the U.S. as well. The latest move in the pressure campaign against Canada’s vaccine mandate for cross-border trucking is a blockade.

A portion of the Freedom Convoy has begun blocking the Alberta crossing, one of the busiest border crossings between the U.S. and Canada.

According to video and reports on social media, farmers have now joined parts of the convoy or the blockade, using massive farm tractors.

RELATED: CNN Chief Zucker Resigns After Admitting Relationship With Subordinate, Trump Calls Him ‘World-Class Sleazebag’

As the convoy in Alberta stretched for miles on Highway 4 across Alberta, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police have called the blocking of the border crossing “unlawful.” They say they have made “extensive efforts” to negotiate with the truckers but stated, “While we thought we had a path to resolve this, the protesters chose not to comply.”

The RCMP also says that if need be, they are prepared to bring in “additional resources” in order to make arrests or tow trucks.

Video in a tweet dated Feb. 1 at 8:03 pm, shows the convoy – including farm tractors – breaking through police lines.

The nationwide protest by Canadian truckers began when the liberal government under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau issued a vaccine mandate for truckers crossing the U.S.-Canada border.

Benjamin Dichter, a spokesman for the protest, appeared with Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson on Tuesday night. He said that, “Canada has gone from Justin Trudeau’s promises of sunny days into dark, authoritarian oppression and control.”

He also described a bit of technology the Canadian government is using. He told the story of approaching the border to return to Canada while driving his truck. He pulled up to the Border agent who would scan a code on his phone enabling him to cross the border as a citizen.

The Border agent informed Dichter that he did not need the code on Dichter’s phone. The GPS tracking on the phone had already alerted him that Dichter was on his way to the border.

Dichter asked the chilling question of what happens if or when this technology goes beyond the border.

RELATED: Reporter Corners Psaki On Crime Wave And Americans Feeling Unsafe Under President Biden

As the convoy arrived in the Canadian capital of Ottawa on Saturday, Justin Trudeau not only refused to communicate in any meaningful way with the truckers, but fled the city with his family, with the CBC reporting that a source cited “security concerns.”

He called those participating in the protests a “fringe minority” with “unacceptable views.”

However, not all the residents of Ottawa were welcoming of the convoy.

In light of the cross-country protest, Alberta Premier Jason Kenney has called for a halt to the quarantine regulations in both countries. And in Quebec, a plan to place a health tax on the unvaccinated has been abandoned. Quebec Premier Francois Legault stated that it would be “too divisive.”