CNN president Jeff Zucker has resigned effective immediately following an admission that he failed to disclose his relationship with a subordinate at the network.

Zucker revealed the relationship in a memo and noted that it came to light during the network’s investigations into former host Chris Cuomo.

Cuomo was fired in December following a New York Attorney General report regarding multiple sexual harassment claims against his brother, disgraced former governor of New York Andrew Cuomo, in which he was alleged to have used media sources to track down information on accusers.

Zucker confirmed that he did not properly disclose his own relationship during the Cuomo investigation.

“As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo’s tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years,” he said.

“I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn’t. I was wrong,” Zucker continued. “As a result, I am resigning today.”

RELATED: Chris Cuomo Set To Sue CNN For $18 Million After He Claims Boss Jeff Zucker Knew All About Efforts To Help His Brother

CNN identified the woman involved as Allison Gollust, the executive vice president and chief marketing officer for CNN.

Gollust, who will remain with the network, said in her own statement that she regrets the pair didn’t disclose their relationship.

“Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years,” she wrote. “Recently, our relationship changed during Covid.”

“I regret that we didn’t disclose it at the right time,” she added. “I’m incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do every day.”

Radar Online reported on the “clandestine romance” earlier this year and revealed an interesting nugget on Gollust that might explain why the network initially consistently defended the Cuomo brothers through multiple scandals.

“Gollust, a veteran public relations expert, once worked as the Democratic lawmaker’s communications director, and rumor mongers inside CNN HQ told Radar that her past job with Cuomo and claims of a romantic relationship raise questions about why Zucker initially protected the embattled brothers,” they reported.

They also claim “the alleged affair is said to have begun while the pair was both married.”

RELATED: More Democrats In Key Demo Watch Tucker Carlson Than Any Other Show – Including Rachel Maddow

Former President Donald Trump wasted no time issuing a statement on Jeff Zucker for having resigned as President of CNN.

Though, he offered up alternative theories as to why Zucker was out.

“Jeff Zucker, a world-class sleazebag who has headed ratings and real-news-challenged CNN for far too long, has been terminated for numerous reasons, but predominantly because CNN has lost its way with viewers and everybody else,” said Trump.

“Now is a chance to put Fake News in the backseat because there may not be anything more important than straightening out the horrendous LameStream Media in our Country, and in the case of CNN, throughout the World,” he added.

The Political Insider reported Wednesday that CNN of late is even struggling to attract Democrat viewers, losing out to Fox News in a key demographic with the voting bloc.

39% of self-described Democrats watching primetime media said they tuned into Fox News, just 30% chose CNN.

CNN’s ratings have been in a freefall ever since Trump left the White House. Ratings for the first week revealed a sharp 90% decline in the coveted 25-54 year old demographic as compared to the previous year.

The network, aside from the Cuomo debacle and now the Zucker affair, has suffered a series of salacious scandals.

Current anchor Don Lemon has faced his own allegations of sexual harassment. Two producers at CNN recently lost their jobs over sex crime allegations pertaining to underage children.

Chief legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin was caught masturbating during a Zoom meeting with colleagues at the New Yorker.

Toobin was suspended but then brought back on the air.