RELATED: AOC Says She’s Been Avoiding Twitter Due To ‘Anxiety’ After Being Criticized For Getting COVID And Partying Maskless In Florida

When asked about spike in crime, Psaki brings up Trump

Talcott pointed out that, while Biden does not share the “defund the police” view of the far-left, crime is nevertheless surging in major cities. On the issue of crime, Biden has low at only 36%.

Talcott asked Psaki if “Democrats are out of touch” when it comes to crime, and what the administration thought about those poor approval numbers.

Psaki responded first by blaming Trump – saying there was “a record jump in murders under the former president.”

Psaki said, “Our view is that instead of turning this into a political football, we need to be focused from the beginning of all of his time in office on reducing crime and keeping our communities safe. And that’s why he’s been a long-time advocate for more accountable community policing.”

The press secretary then said that Biden was “working to crack down on rogue gun dealers who sell firearms to criminals.”

“His objective is to work with Democrats, Republicans, mayors, and local leaders to work to address what we’ve seen as increases in crime in some areas,” she said.

Psaki then went back to Trump, saying, “I would just note that, nationwide, there has been an increases (sic) in crime over the past few years.”

RELATED: Psaki Bewildered That Republicans Would Focus On Crime – Calls It ‘Alternate Universe’

Psaki has discredited concerns about rising crime more than once

Psaki recently said on the “Pod Save America” podcast that she didn’t understand why Republicans were so focused on rising crime, and believed Fox News and conservative media overhyped the issue.

“If you look at Fox on a daily basis … on Fox is Jeanine Pirro talking about soft on crime consequences… “Psaki said.

“I mean, what does that even mean?” Psaki wondered. “So there’s an alternate universe on some coverage and what’s scary about it is a lot of people watch that and they think the president isn’t doing anything to address people’s safety in New York and that couldn’t be further from the truth.”