Donald Trump slammed Senator Lindsey Graham, calling him a ‘RINO’ and insisting he is “wrong” for opposing pardons for some of those arrested for the January 6 riot at the Capitol.

The former President made the comments in an interview with Newsmax Tuesday.

At a raucous rally in Conroe, Texas Saturday evening, Trump first broached the topic of issuing pardons for some of those involved in the Capitol riot he feels have been treated “unfairly.”

Trump suggested he might do so if he runs and wins in 2024.

“If I run, and if I win, we will treat those people from January 6 fairly. We will treat them fairly,” he vowed. “If that requires pardons, we will give them pardons, because they are being treated so unfairly.”

RELATED: Trump Hints That He Would Pardon January 6 Rioters If He Wins In 2024

Graham (R-SC) was quick to condemn Trump’s suggestion of issuing pardons, calling his comments “inappropriate.”

“No, I don’t want to send any signal that it was OK to defile the Capitol,” Graham fired back. “I think it’s inappropriate … I don’t want to do anything that would make this more likely in the future.”

“Well, Lindsey Graham’s wrong. I mean, Lindsey’s a nice guy, but he’s a RINO. Lindsey’s wrong,” Trump said.

RINO, of course, is an acronym for ‘Republican In Name Only,’ used frequently amongst conservatives for those GOP leaders who lack the intestinal fortitude to actually stand up for their professed values.

“Lindsey Graham doesn’t know what the hell he’s talking about if he says that,” an infuriated Trump added.

RELATED: Report: Lindsey Graham Told Police To Use Guns Against Capitol Rioters

Graham, according to reports back in November, urged police officers to use their guns during the January 6th riot at the Capitol, shouting at them to “take back the Senate!”

“You’ve got guns. Use them,” he told police personnel.

“We give you guns for a reason,” Graham reportedly said at the time. “Use them.”

The South Carolina Senator isn’t the only entrenched GOP lawmaker to object to Trump’s comments on pardons.

“My view is, I would not be in favor of shortening any of the sentences for any of the people who pleaded guilty to crimes,” said McConnell.

There is no indication that Trump’s suggestion addresses individuals who have already pled guilty to crimes.

He may very well be discussing those who have been swept up in FBI overpursuit, dragging people into the investigation who may have simply been in the area or walking through the Capitol.