The most recent data released by Nielsen MRI Fusion shows Tucker Carlson leading all cable news shows in the number of viewers in a key demographic.

Carlson, in the latest data available from October, was the top show in the coveted 25-54 year old demographic… amongst Democrats.

“Carlson was top among Democrats in the demo across all of cable news that month and ranked third place among Dems in total viewership, too,” according to The Wrap.

“In October, Carlson’s show was the top-rated program in the demo across all of cable news …” they add. “Even topping Rachel Maddow.”

RELATED: Clinton Official Wants Tucker Carlson Tried For Treason For Opposing War With Russia

The Wrap report also reveals that “self-described Democrats” watch Fox News, in general, more than any other network.

“Of those demo-aged viewers surveyed who identified as Democrats, 39% chose Fox News, 31% chose MSNBC and 30% chose CNN for programming from 8 p.m. ET to 11 p.m. ET,” they write.

Daytime shows don’t deliver much better news for the left-leaning networks.

In total day viewership, 42% of Democrats in that age range are watching Fox News, compared to 33% who are suffering through CNN programming and 25% who masochistically watch MSNBC.

For all their obsession with trying to watch Fox so their viewers don’t have to, CNN is still failing in an attempt to draw more Democrat viewers than their rival.

The left-leaning networks aren’t even entertaining enough to draw their core base. How sad is that?

RELATED: CNN Ratings Just Hit An Embarrassing New Low – Less Than 1 Million Viewers For Any Show

Tucker Carlson is the undisputed gold standard of media entertainment today. He delivers on a nightly basis with a solid mixture of intelligent commentary, witty banter, and hilarious jokes – usually at the expense of Democrats.

And yet, according to these numbers, they still watch.

The humor aspect shown through in a recent segment where he mocked Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for hiding from truckers engaged in a “Freedom Convoy” protest against the cross-border vaccine mandate.

“There’s no more fearful despot in the world than Justin Trudeau of Canada,” Carlson said on his show Monday evening, brutally mocking the PM as being a “master of disguise,” referring to his numerous dalliances with blackface.

The intellect shown through in a segment yesterday evening in which he argued that it is the Democrat Party that is destroying democracy, even as they feign being it’s protector.

“You’d think that people like this would welcome a chance to reflect on what they’ve done. They have screwed up very badly,” he insisted. “They’ve hurt the weakest among us.”

“Funny how that works,” Carlson continued. “You wreck stuff and then you ignore it. This allows you to wreck more stuff without feeling guilty.”

The ratings show that Fox News, unsruprisingly, leads with the number of self-described Republicans (69% daytime, 73% primetime) and Independents (58% daytime, 53% primetime).

January’s general ratings breakdown released by Nielsen earlier this week had the network declared the top-rated cable news channel for 20 straight years.