A WOMAN who was told a mole was “nothing to worry about” by GPs died after cancer spread to her brain and lungs, her husband has said.

Charlotte Kerns, 48, had visited GPs several times concerned about a mole-like growth on the top of her left hand but despite it being removed no further biopsy tests were undertaken.

After the growth was removed for a third time, she suffered a seizure while driving and a biopsy was carried out that confirmed it was malignant, meaning cells were growing and spreading.

She tragically died last November after instructing lawyers to investigate if her cancer could have been diagnosed sooner.

Grieving husband Richard, 55, has revealed his pain at seeing his wife suffer after getting the “heart-breaking and life-changing” cancer diagnosis.

"Despite the lesion coming back several times she never believed she was given the impression there was anything to be concerned about,” he said.

Despite her diagnosis “she fought the cancer time and again and with such courage and bravery”, said Richard.

"It was really hard to see Charlotte suffering, but she was determined right until the end to try and do everything to beat cancer.”

In 2009, Charlotte developed an abnormal mole-like light brown growth on her hand and over the next four years, it grew and became darker until it started to catch on her sleeves.

In April 2013 Charlotte had the growth removed and visited a doctor again in March 2015 but after the lesion grew back it was removed in two procedures that year.

But once again it came back so in spring 2017 Charlotte had the growth removed for a third time in June that year.

A biopsy was taken and following tests, she was diagnosed with malignant melanoma.

In January 2019, Charlotte, a language college's head of studies suffered the seizure.

Tests revealed a cancerous brain tumour as a result of the malignant melanoma from her hand spreading.

She underwent brain surgery and radiotherapy but the brain tumour was incurable and the cancer later spread to her lungs, spine and leg.

"Charlotte was such a kind, generous and loving person and her death has left a huge void in so many people's lives,” said Richard, who was speaking ahead of World Cancer Day on February 4.

"Life will never be the same without her by my side. We had so many hopes and dreams for the future that we now won't get to fulfil."

Ruth Thomas, the specialist medical negligence lawyer at Irwin Mitchell representing Richard, said her “family remain devastated by her death”.

"Understandably, Richard has a number of concerns about Charlotte's diagnosis, and we're investigating those concerns to provide him with the answers he deserves.

Charlotte's friends and family have raised nearly £5,000 for St. Ann’s Hospice in Cheadle and Macmillan Cancer Support.

The two charities helped care for her in the final months of her life.