JORDYN Woods showed off the stunning sunset views from her LA home.

The 22-year-old EXILED Kardashian-Jenner member's new photos came as fans called for Khloe Kardashian to apologize for her past harsh tweets.

Jordyn moved into her modern LA home in 2019 after reportedly getting kicked out of former best friend Kylie Jenner's home amidst her alleged cheating scandal with Tristan Thompson, who is the father of Khloe Kardashian's daughter True.

In January, Tristan confirmed he fathered a child - his third - with Maralee Nichols.

Since having a fallout with her former bff and the rest of the Kardashian-Jenner clan, Jordyn has moved onward and upward and her house is the proof.

In a new Instagram Story, Jordyn showed off the sun-kissed views from her mountainous home.

It featured stunning views and an expansive back porch with a sofa and chairs for lounging.

The glimpse into her home life comes as fans are demanding Khloe, 37, apologize for her earlier nasty tweets against Jordyn.

Jordyn made headlines after she was caught "making out" with Khloe's baby daddy Tristan while she was pregnant with their now four-year-old daughter True.

The Kar-Jenners removed the long-time family friend as a model from their various brands and cut off the joint makeup project between her and Kylie.

While Khloe and Tristan, 30, split because of the kiss, they did manage to reconcile during the 2020 pandemic when they were quarantined together.

However, they broke it off once again after more cheating rumors emerged, including claims of the athlete "disappearing into a bedroom with three women at a party."

Tristan then found himself back in hot water after the NBA star welcomed a newborn son with fitness model Maralee Nichols.

Khloe has paused plans to move into her $37 million mansion amid the drama.

She and Tristan were supposed to live in the mansion together, but those plans changed after Tristan's cheating came to light.

Fans want Khloe to let Jordyn out of the proverbial doghouse for her actions years ago as Tristan's cheating continued long afterwards.

The gossip Instagram page, Hollywood Unlocked, shared a series of tweets in support of Jordyn after the trio began trending on Twitter.

They recapped fans' reactions in the caption writing: "Jordyn Woods trends again following news about Tristan Thompson fathering his third child with another woman."

"Should Khloe Kardashian finally apologize to her for initially accusing Jordyn of breaking up her family over the 2019 kissing scandal? Or should Khloe just focus on healing in peace?"

One person's tweet read: "And they tried to blame Jordyn Woods for this issue?"

Follow our Tristan Thompson live blog for the very latest news and updates...

Another replied: "Wonderful news. What Khloe needs to do is apologize to Jordyn Woods."

Khloe's original tweet read, per RADAR Online: "Why are you lying @jordynwoods ?? If you're going to try and save yourself by going public, INSTEAD OF CALLING ME PRIVATELY TO APOLOGIZE FIRST, at least be HONEST about your story. BTW, you ARE the reason my family broke up!"

Others backed Jordyn for her treatment by the famous family after the incident with one tweeting:

"So let me get this straight, Khloe Kardashian and her sisters slandered Jordyn Woods and acted like she was the problem, keep in mind that family is known for dating taken men, while Khloe forgave Tristan and now she got cheated on AGAIN."