THE Tories should be mortified that Keir Starmer can now justifiably brand them the high-tax party.

We never thought Labour, having left the public finances in ruins in 2010, could ever again claim the high ground on the economy. But here we are.

And such is Boris Johnson’s desperation over the cost of living, Partygate and much else that his arguments are coming apart.

He tells The Sun that fans of Maggie Thatcher should applaud his April National Insurance hike after so much Covid borrowing. But why?

Maggie would never have raised the overall burden to its highest in 70 years, nor demanded new taxes from working people already staring down the barrel of soaring prices, bills and mortgages.

She would have streamlined Government, cut costs and turbo-charged growth with LOWER taxes.

How ridiculous too for the PM to boast that Brexit allows him to slash VAT on our crippling energy bills.

So far he has chosen NOT to. Indeed it is one of many Brexit advantages he refuses to seize.

It is still laughable to suggest Labour can be trusted on the economy.

Starmer’s rabble were trying to install a dilapidated Marxist to run the Treasury, Venezuela-style, just over two years ago.

But how recklessly the Tories have jettisoned their economic trump card.

And how ineffectual too their solution to our rocketing bills looks: A few quid in a rebate, swallowed by the looming tax grab.

We hope Chancellor Rishi Sunak has something better to announce today.

The Sun first opposed the National Insurance rise last autumn, long before doing so became fashionable.

It looks even worse now than it did then.

LABOUR’S opportunist rage over alleged Tory PPE “waste” blows apart their claim to be a grown-up party ready for power.

More than half the £8.7billion figure is simply the fall in the value of gear bought when Covid first struck and ­prices were astronomical.

Much of the rest was inevitable given the dire shortage of PPE and the speed hospitals and care homes needed it.

The Tories hurled money at it to save lives.

Labour knows this, too.

Not least because in 2020 they were screaming at the Government to secure this equipment from anywhere, including the rank amateurs and chancers on a list of alleged suppliers they cobbled together.

To attack Tory over-spending now is utterly juvenile.

But where Captain Hindsight leads, his lackeys follow.

THREE cheers for the life-giving magic potion that solves our health woes.

Not the Covid jabs, good as they are.

We’re talking about carb-free beer that won’t make us fat.