THEY say nothing lasts forever - except for true love and tattoos. So why not combine the two into one everlasting expression?

That's just what several of the Teen Mom stars have done.

Be it simple matching infinity rings or complex ambigrams, the reality show members are not afraid to ink themselves up. And sometimes even cover-up and ink themseles again.

And in one case, the duo became a trio, when three of the stars all got the same ink.

Check out some of these Teen Mom couple tattoos.

When Teen Mom 2's Leah Messer, Chelsea Houska, Jenelle Evans, and Kailyn Lowry all headed to Los Angeles for the reunion special, the girls decided to commemorate the occasion by getting matching heart tattoos.

But Jenelle later revealed on TikTok that when the time came, she mistakenly got left behind.

She said: “So we all decide to get this tattoo together and in one way or another, coincidently, I wasn’t invited with them.

“Later on I asked them and they told me the name of the place and that the guy would remember. And so I went there and the guy did remember and he did my tattoo but I did it after them.

“And looking back on it, I feel really dumb that I was feeling obligated to go get something done just because I felt left out.”

TO INFINITY AND BEYOND?

Javi Marroquin and Kailyn Lowry celebrated their never ending love in 2012 with matching tattoos of the infinity symbol.

Kailyn explained that whenever the couple said “I love you” to each other, they would add the popular Toy Story line, "To infinity and beyond."

Four years later, the two would finalize their divorce.

But there have been recent rumors of a reconciliation, after the two were spotted together on a secret kayaking date.

TEEN Mom Kailyn Lowry cuddled up on the couch with her ex-husband Javi Marroquin while fans' suspicions continue to grow that the pair are back together.

The former couple sparked chatter of a reconciliation after their several recent hangouts, including a secret kayaking date.

Kailyn also shared a TikTok featuring her ex as they got cozy on the couch together.

Years later, Javi would again find himself under the needle for a couples tattoo.

This time, he and Teen Mom 2 co-star Briana DeJesus, whom he started dating in late 2017, each got ink of matching chess pieces.

Javi went for the king piece, while Briana opted for the queen piece.

Three months later, it was game over for the pair, as they broke up.

Javi moved on to a relationship with Lauren Comeau, and in March 2019, on their first anniversary, covered up the tattoo, and shared a special message on Instagram:

In 2014, Amber Portwood and Matt Baier went global for their matching tattoos.

The pair each got the Italian words “Vero Amore” inked on their inner arms.

It translated to "True Love" in English.

Unfortunately, the true love couldn't translate into forever love, as their relationship was over just two years later.

Amber recently revealed during a Teen Mom episode that her love goes beyond just men.

"I have been bisexual,” she opened up in the first look at the show, later following up: "I was going to go to the grave with this.”

It's the first time that the mother-of-two has opened up about her sexuality on the show, despite making references to her preferences in 2014.

Jenelle Evans and Nathan Griffith got creative with their matching ink.

The pair got a version of an ambigram reading "Jenelle" one way and "Nathan" upside down.

They even placed the tattoo on their hips, because, in the words of Jenelle, the two were "attached at the hip."

Jenelle met Nathan on Tinder in June 2015 shortly after splitting from her boyfriend Courtland.

She announced she was pregnant with Nathan's child just months later in December.

But after the birth of baby Kaiser in 2014 - and several charges of domestic violence from both partners, the two separated in 2015.