HAVE you got a hidden talent than can rake in the cash?

TikTok star Francis Bourgeois, 21, hit headlines when his passion for trains saw him signed up to star in adverts for fashion brands Gucci and North Face. If you want to turn your fun into funds, here’s some ways you can go about it . . .

GROW YOUR OWN: Love spending time in the garden or allotment? Pick up cheap seeds or young plants from The Range (starting at 49p) and nurture them this spring. Facebook Marketplace is a great place to start selling anything you harvest. Keep the new seeds, too, as you can sell them on for a great profit. You can also turn your produce into pasta sauces or preserves and sell them at a local market.

PROPAGATING POWER: House plants are big business right now. If you have a Swiss cheese plant, you can grow another by placing a leaf stem in water for a couple of weeks before transferring to a pot. Full-grown plants cost around £40, depending on size, but a young propagated plant goes for around £10 on auction sites. Check gardeningknowhow.com to make sure you cut the stems in the right place.

ODD JOBS: Know all about computers? Maybe you like DIY or a bit of flatpack furniture-building? Advertise your skills on taskrabbit.com or fiverr.com where you can charge per project or per hour. Assembling furniture can earn you around £10-15 per hour.

SHOP CLEVER: Get smart about charity shopping and travel to further-out areas to find bargain items you can sell on for more money. Try the Depop and Vinted apps to sell goods you find.

OF COURSE YOU CAN: Is your hobby something other people would benefit from knowing? Why not turn it into a course you can teach? Even with something like birdwatching, there will always be someone who doesn’t know how to start and could benefit from what you can teach them. Set up your own website for free at wix.com (there are easy-to-follow guides), create social media channels for your hobby and start asking friends and family to promote it.
• Prices correct at time of going to press. Deals and offers subject to availability.

CLEAN up with a pack of Fairy non-bio capsules, 51 washes. Usually £11, but down to £8.50 at Asda.

TAKE a break at B&M, where a pack of nine KitKat hazelnut bars is £1, down from £1.50.

PICK up a pair of tan boots for little ones from Schuh, for £32, or head to Matalan where you can snap up a similar pair, on sale for £9.

FILL up with The Co-op’s freezer deal – just £5 for five favourites, including two GoodFella’s pizzas, McCain wedges, Birds Eye nuggets and Oreo ice cream.

GIVE this a fry. The Swan Carlton four-litre air fryer (RRP £79.99) is £44.99 at Home Bargains.

JUMP into February with sportswear from Puma.com. Items are up to half-price off in the sale.

JOIN thousands of readers taking part in The Sun Raffle.

Every month we’re giving away £100 to 250 lucky readers - whether you’re saving up or just in need of some extra cash, The Sun could have you covered.

Every Sun Savers code entered equals one Raffle ticket. The more codes you enter, the more tickets you'll earn and the more chance you will have of winning!

To take part go to sunsavers.co.uk or open the Sun Savers app.

With Sun Savers, we give you the best hacks, deals and tips to save money every single day.

TO JOIN: Don’t worry, folks — joining takes just 30 seconds, in three steps.