BASTIAN SCHWEINSTEIGER revealed his 'great pain' at Jose Mourinho banning him from the Manchester United dressing room.. on his BIRTHDAY.

The Germany legend lost 'love' and 'trust' for United after Mourinho questioned his professionalism and ordered him to train with the Under-23s.

Schweinsteiger says Mourinho has since apologised for punishing him for getting medical treatment in his home country - but the damage was done.

The 121-cap World Cup winner earned Champions League glory and eight Bundesliga titles with Bayern Munich.

But his career was starting to wane when he joined United in 2015.

And the ex-midfielder admits he 'lost heart' with the Red Devils after Mourinho's dramatic actions against him.

Schweinsteiger still played 31 games under Louis Van Gaal but his Old Trafford fortunes nose-dived under Portuguese boss Mourinho - hitting rock bottom on his 32nd birthday on August 1 2016.

He told Manchester United's official podcast: "It was very strange on my birthday.

FREE BETS: GET OVER £2,000 IN NEW CUSTOMER DEALS

"I came to the dressing room to change but then someone told me I'm not allowed to go in and had to play with the second team.

"I was very hurt because no one was talking to me.

"Then I was speaking to Mourinho about it and he explained something to me, something which I really did not understand and it had to do with the second injury that I got.

"My first injury I got the season before I got treated by the medical department of United and then in an easy training session I got the same injury...

"So I asked Louis van Gaal if I could get treated in Germany because we had Euro 2016 coming up and it was always agreed to that.

"So I did that, I was fit, I played the Euros.

"I was looking forward to coming to United to play with Mourinho - who twice actually wanted to buy me with Inter Milan in 2010 and then later on at Madrid.

"I had a lot of respect for him obviously but I did not understand why I was not allowed to train with the first team because there were some different opinions about me being professional - which is not true because I am professional.

"I showed it later on I was always training with the kids or alone."

Schweinsteiger insists he maintained his love for team-mates and fans but lost some trust towards United.

He added: "Mourinho apologised and said he made a mistake which of course was nice but I lost my heart and love a little bit towards the club.

"It hurt me so much it was great pain for me and I couldn't really trust (the club)."

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals