PAM and Tommy fans were shocked to see full-frontal male nudity during episode 2 of the new Hulu show.

The series, which follows Pamela Anderson (Lily James) and Tommy Lee (Sebastian Stan) around the time of their sex tape, features a “disturbing” scene of a “talking penis.”

The surprising moment arrived about halfway through the second episode, where a naked Tommy is high on ecstasy and having a full-on conversation with his privates.

After the Mötley Crüe drummer has sex with the Baywatch star, he decides that he’s so in love with her that he wants to propose.

He tells his penis as much, but his body part (voiced by Big Mouth star Jason Mantzoukas) tells Tommy how bad of an idea it is.

Sebastian as Tommy looks down at himself during the discussion, while the appendage moves all around as it talks.

Pam & Tommy viewers couldn’t believe what they were witnessing and had no idea the show would be so “disturbing.”

One fan tweeted: “Tommy’s talking Eggplant in e2 will have your jaw on floor.

“Trainwreck and I am here for it all.”

Another said: “Tommy Lee's (Sebastian Stan) talking penis upstages every single actor, moment or scene in @sethrogen and Hulu's #PamAndTommy.

“Voiced by Jason Mantzoukas, it is truly hilarious.”

A third wrote: “The part on #PamAndTommy where Tommy is talking to his penis & his penis is talking back to him while he is on Ex is the funniest stuff ever.”

Others called the entire full-frontal exchange “crazy,” “weird,” and a “very odd experience.”

The new series is set in 1995, right around the time Pam and Tommy’s infamous sex tape was released.

Aside from Lily and Sebastian as the titular characters, the cast also includes Seth Rogen as Rand Gauthier, Nick Offerman as Uncle Miltie, and Taylor Schilling as Rand's wife and porn star Erica Gauthier.

The first three episodes were released on Wednesday, and a new episode is set to debut every week on the same day.

Pamela and Tommy's real-life steamy romance captivated fans in the '90s with their wild rock n' roll lifestyle, which also led to a sex tape scandal that would follow them for decades.

The show takes viewers through the real-life antics of the Baywatch star's romance with her first husband, Motley Crue drummer Tommy, who she wed after knowing for only four days.

But before their lives were turned into a TV script, Pamela and Tommy were two young Hollywood stars in love, first locking eyes in 1995 at a club.

Their romance moved quickly as the lovebirds tied the knot on a beach in Cancun, Mexico only days after meeting.

The newlywed couple recorded their private bedroom antics on their honeymoon, but the tape was allegedly stolen from Tommy’s safe, creating one of the most talked about scandals in Hollywood.

Soon it ended up online and within a year had earned more than $81M in paid-for views.

Pamela, now 54, was distraught and the episode drove a wedge between her and the musician, 59, leading to their divorce just three years later.

It was something she couldn’t ever bear to watch, saying: “Someone stole the safe and spliced together the different times and said there was a sex tape.

“I have never ever seen it. And it was not something you want anyone to see.”

Tommy believes that one of the contractors who were working on the renovation of his London home where the pair were staying removed the safe.

The finger of blame pointed at disgruntled electrician Rand Gauthier (the character Seth plays on the series), who was working at the home at the time of the theft.

Tommy and Pamela say they eventually agreed to allow it to be broadcast on the internet one time only.

And then, without their permission, it was turned into a tape available for purchase at regular outlets.