KATIE Price’s terminally ill mum breaks down in tears as she reveals the family heirloom she will pass on to her daughter in her daughter's Channel 4 show.

Katie, 43, is renovating her Sussex home after years of neglect and disasters in the three-part series.

And it seems all the family are getting involved, with Amy designing a special room in the Mucky Mansion so that she can always be remembered.

She was diagnosed with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in 2017 and there is currently no cure.

In the series, available to watch on All4, Amy tells the cameras: "When you're not well you look at things in a different way and it would be nice if you can leave things that people can remember you by.

"Once it is done I want it to be a happy room, a comforting room, whenever she is sort of not feeling too good she can come in here and it will be quiet.

"And she can reflect. That's what I think will be nice for her.

"I've had this Chinese bureau for fifty years myself and well, it's just been with me."

An emotional Katie also explains why she asked her mum to put her own stamp on one of the rooms in her home.

She says: "My mum doing a room in my house is special.

"Because it could actually potentially be the last thing she ever does for me.

"And hopefully she doesn't pass, but when she eventually does, I know I have a room that she put together. It's sentimental, a nice room, a happy room to be in."

Amy fills the room with statement floral wallpaper and green walls which are complemented by bamboo-style furniture.

After seeing her transformed space and the bureau desk, Katie tells Amy: "It actually looks good in here. No TV. Just a quiet room, no phones, no music, a new start, new beginnings.

"It's relaxing in here. Well done you two. I actually really do love it, I'm not going to change it."

She added to the cameras: "To be fair I've got to give it to my mum and that they've done a really good job."

Amy's illness causes scarring to the lungs which reduces the sufferer's ability to breathe. There is currently no cure.

In her book Harvey and Me, the former glamour girl admitted she's come to terms with the diagnosis and is planning for her mother's funeral.

She wrote: "I've accepted it now because I have to. She has an incurable disease and that's just the reality of it.

"I know it sounds awful, but once we knew the prognosis, I even spoke to my mum about her funeral and what she wants for it.

"I think it's much easier to organise a funeral if you know what they want."

The mum-of-five also recently said she will be marrying her fiance Carl in the UK so her mum can be there.