KATIE Price's daughter Princess said she couldn't wait to move back into her mum's Mucky Mansion after previously admitting it was a "dark house".

The 14-year-old got stuck into the renovation in episode two of the new Channel 4 series and admitted her mum's new upbeat attitude persuaded her to give it another go.

As they gave Princess's room a new lease of life, Katie said: "This room is going to be for Princess.

"I don't want to make it too girly... Princess didn't want to stay here.

"We've all got memories of the house so I want to recreate everything and not have everything the same."

And at first, Princess said: "I didn't really like this house at the start.

"It was a dark house. There were just so many bad memories in it."

Her mum replied: "There was a lot of heartache, it wasn't good."

Revealing just how much she disliked the place, Princess continued: "I didn't even want to walk on the driveway.

"Before my mum's head was in a bad place but now her heads in a good place, it's a lot better. I'm excited. I didn't think we'd come back here to be honest."

At the end of episode three on All4, Katie unveiled her efforts to an amazed Princess.

Her daughter declared: "I absolutely love my room. I'm actually really impressed with how it turned out."

Katie also gave fans a glimpse of her new kitchen and garden room, and the transformation is astounding.

The new kitchen boasts white and dark grey cabinets with white counter tops and stainless steel mod-cons.

Making sure to honour Katie's love of pink, the space features four chesterfield-inspired blush-coloured chairs and a glamorous silver-legged dining table.

Paying tribute to the past and present, Katie chose to hang up art her children made throughout the years on a cork board to give it that extra family feel.

The open-plan kitchen and sitting room is cosier than ever with a statement brick fireplace and is a far cry from the ransacked space it was a year ago.

A new garden room features floor-to-ceiling wooden-framed windows and forest green velvet chairs and an orange sofa.

The room features statement floral wallpaper and green walls which are complemented by bamboo-style furniture.

Her youngest son Jett's once plain and boring bedroom was given a new lease of life and turned into an exotic jungle paradise.

The seven-year-old's name lit up the wall in orange neon, while his raised bed took centre stage with giant leaves reaching out over the top.

Katie put her creativity to good use gluing cuddly animals onto the wall, while at the far end a rope ran across the ceiling and more animals were packed into crates.

She and eldest son Harvey shopped for fake grass to be used on the walls and a trellis covered in foliage to act as the bed's headboard.

Citing Jurassic park as her inspiration, she said: "Jett loves the outdoors. I want it to be like a den for him."

"Jett's a very lucky boy. It's going to look amazing. I love a garden centre, I must be getting old."

The youngster loved his new-look room, telling his mum "everything" was his favourite.