JEFF Zucker was reportedly ousted from CNN after his secret romance with executive Allison Gollust was exposed in the Chris Cuomo probe.

CNN has updated a previously published story with the new information surrounding Zucker's departure, indicating there was pressure on him to resign.

While Zucker would have liked to stay on to ensure a "smooth transition," he reportedly was "facing termination if he did not resign," according to CNN.

The ousted president met with CNN executives shortly before announcing his resignation in an email around 11am Wednesday morning.

"As part of the investigation into Chris Cuomo's tenure at CNN, I was asked about a consensual relationship with my closest colleague, someone I have worked with for more than 20 years," Zucker wrote in the memo.

"I acknowledged the relationship evolved in recent years. I was required to disclose it when it began but I didn't.

Zucker and Gollust met working for NBC in 1998.

She has been Zucker's key lieutenant for the last 20 years, according to CNN.

Gollust, who is executive vice president and chief marketing officer at CNN, released her own statement today.

"Jeff and I have been close friends and professional partners for over 20 years. Recently, our relationship changed during COVID.

"I regret that we didn't disclose it at the right time.

"I'm incredibly proud of my time at CNN and look forward to continuing the great work we do everyday."

She is reportedly remaining with the network.

Zucker's departure comes on the heels of his firing of Chris Cuomo for "improperly advising" his brother, former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, on addressing sexual misconduct allegations.

In Zucker's absence, three executives will lead CNN: Michael Bass, Amy Entelis, and Ken Jautz.

The trio will take the reigns until WarnerMedia completes its merger with Discovery.

Jason Kilar, the CEO of CNN parent WarnerMedia, said three senior executives will lead CNN until the merger with Discovery is complete: Michael Bass, Amy Entelis, and Ken Jautz.

"I have full confidence that Michael, Amy and Ken, as interim heads for News, will provide the leadership this organization needs during this time of transition," CEO of CNN parent WarnerMedia Jason Kilar said in an email to employees.

CNN has not yet responded to The US Sun's request for comment.