WHOOPI Goldberg is “livid” after her suspension from The View following her statement that the Holocaust was “not about race," reports claim.

After being disciplined by network executives, Whoopi reportedly said she feels “humiliated” and has supposedly told co-workers she is going to quit the show, according to a source.

The source told the New York Post that Whoopi feels ABC “mishandled” the situation.

“She followed their playbook. She went on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert and then apologized again on The View the next day,” the insider told the outlet.

The source claimed Whoopi is taking the suspension hard and she wants to leave the show.

“Her ego has been hurt and she’s telling people she’s going to quit,” they added.

“Suspension from The View is like getting suspended from Bravo. The bar is very low.”

In a statement, ABC News President Kim Godwin said she would be suspending Whoopi for two weeks for her "wrong and hurtful comments."

"While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments.

“The entire ABC News organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends, family and communities.”

A source told The Daily Beast that Whoopi’s co-hosts Sunny Hostin, Joy Behar and Ana Navarro are “furious” with the network’s decision.

None of the stars have made a public comment on the suspension, but Sunny Hostin retweeted a post that read: “ADL making it clear here that the org is accepting Whoopi Goldberg’s apology.”

The DailyMail reported, however, that some ABC staffers were “really upset and don’t understand why it took two days” for Whoopi to face consequences.

Several other staffers called for the 66-year-old to be fired, allegedly. "These comments are absolutely abhorrent and outrageous and it’s time Disney and ABC grew a pair and fired her, the source said.

Whoopi expressed regret for her words in an apology on Twitter. “My words upset so many people, which was never my intention,” she said.

“I understand why now and for that, I am deeply, deeply grateful because the information I got was really helpful and helped me understand some different things.”

Goldberg's comments came only days after Holocaust Remembrance Day when tribute was paid to the six million people who died.

The View's show on Monday had been discussing the recent scandal after a Tennessee school board voted to remove the Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel Maus from an eighth-grade language arts curriculum.

The book depicts Jews being tortured and murdered by the Nazis during World War Two.

The board had claimed the book is unsuitable because of bad language and the depiction of female nudity.

It was removed from this school's curriculum after months of increased pressure from parents in some districts over books that focus on issues of race, gender identity, and sexuality.

“I’m surprised that’s what made you uncomfortable, the fact that there was some nudity. I mean, it’s about the Holocaust, the killing of 6 million people, but that didn’t bother you?” Goldberg asked.

While these first comments did not initially draw the anger of her co-hosts, Goldberg later returned to her theory that the Holocaust, which was sparked by the belief in a "master race" and a desire for "racial purity," was not about race.

"If you're going to do this, then let's be truthful about it," Goldberg said.

"Because the Holocaust isn't about race. No, it's not about race."

Co-host Joy Behar hit back: "Then what was it about?"

"It's about man's inhumanity to man," Goldberg responded, again claiming Adolf Hitler's "Final Solution" was not about race.

"That's what it's about."

Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, struggled with Whoopi’s statement on Monday.

“The only explanation that I have for it is that there is a new definition of racism that has been put out there in the public recently that defines racism exclusively as the targeting of people of color. And obviously, history teaches us otherwise,” he said.

“Everything about Nazi Germany and about the targeting of the Jews and about the Holocaust was about race and racism. That’s the unfortunate, unassailable historic fact.”

Kenneth L. Marcus, Chapman of the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law, said Whoopi’s comments showed misconceptions people still have about the Holocaust.

“In her error, she was reflecting a misunderstanding of Jewish identity that is both widespread and dangerous that is sometimes described as erasive antisemitism,” said Marcus.

“It is the notion that Jews should be viewed only as being white, privileged oppressors,” he continued. “It denies Jewish identity and involves a whitewashing of Jewish history.”

In an interview with CNN’s Don Lemon, Greenblatt said he accepted Whoopi’s apology.

“I know she's been a friend of the Jewish community all throughout her career. And I respect that and appreciate it. I can't comment on ABC News' internal process, but what I will say is that I hope Whoopi can use the next two weeks for a process of introspection and learning."

Greenblatt hopes that Whoopi can use the opportunity and platform to “educate herself and to share what she learns with her audience and with the country at large.”