THE Godfather is coming to the silver screen–kind of.

In a miniseries about the movie, Miles Teller and Matthew Goode will play real-life producers in a dramatization of how the Corleone family came to life.

The Offer: Is the Godfather miniseries a true story?

The Godfather was originally written as a crime novel by Mario Puzo in 1969.

The book was adapted into a movie directed by Francis Ford Coppola in 1972 and had an extremely contentious production.

The miniseries will dramatize that production with an ensemble cast.

The title of the miniseries was inspired by a line scripted for Marlon Brando’s character Vito Corleone, who said “I’m going to make him an offer he can’t refuse,” in reference to a threat he would later issue to a studio executive.

Brando won the Oscar for Best Actor for his portrayal as the patriarch of the Corleone crime family.

After release, The Godfather was immediately revered as one of the greatest films of all time.

What is The Offer about?

The Offer will portray the three-way power struggle between the film’s producer Al Ruddy, Paramount Studio Executive Robert Evans, and now-famed director Francis Ford Coppola.

Ruddy, played by Teller, balanced the chaos of production and demands of the studio while also working in concert with known mafia boss Joseph Colombo to improve the reception of the film.

According to Vanity Fair, the miniseries will depict a scene of a real encounter between music magnate Frank Sinatra and Mario Puzo, in which Sinatra accosted the author for the depiction of mafia-adjacent singer Johnny Fontaine.

The Corleone family gave rise to three movies, spring-boarded Al Pacino's career and, of course, gifted society the line, "leave the gun, take the cannolis."

The show about a movie will give viewers an inside look at one of the crown jewels of moviemaking.

A trailer for the series was posted to Paramount+'s Instagram.

How can I watch The Offer?

The Offer has wrapped production and cast members have made it known on Instagram.

Juno Temple, portraying Al Ruddy’s assistant and pointwoman Bettye McCartt, posted a picture of herself celebrating the start of the series press tour.

Burn Gorman posted an animated graphic set to The Godfather’s unmistakable trumpet theme to his Instagram.

Colin Hanks, son of actor Tom Hanks, posted the series poster to his Instagram.

The Offer will be available exclusively on Paramount Plus on April 28, 2022.