CHRISTIAN ERIKSEN will get the green light from Fifa to play in the 2022 World Cup - even if any heart screening flags up a potential problem.

Danish ace Eriksen signed for Brentford last week, seven months after “dying” on the pitch during his country’s Euro 2020 game with Finland.

The former Spurs and Inter Milan schemer revealed his target was to return to Denmark colours in time to play in Qatar when the World Cup kicks off in November.

And while Fifa will demand all players selected for the tournament undergo screening to identify potential risks of cardiac arrest, they will not prevent Eriksen from playing.

Eriksen, 29, had an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) device installed in surgery after his collapse in Copenhagen.

That is a type of pacemaker which can prevent cardiac arrests by discharging a jolt to restore a regular heart rhythm.

Fifa’s World Cup regulations include every country having to confirm all players have undergone medical assessment, including heart screening.

But confirming any final call will have to be made by Eriksen and the Danish FA, the world body said: “When it comes to Fifa competitions, all players must undergo a cardiac screening to ensure that they are fully aware of anything that could affect their health.

JOIN SUN VEGAS: GET A FREE £10 BONUS WITH 100s OF GAMES TO PLAY AND NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED (Ts&Cs apply)

“The ultimate decision on whether a player can play is taken by the player and the relevant member association.”

Eriksen completed the details of his transfer from Amsterdam after passing a medical.

But he will only arrive in the UK at the earliest this Sunday, after recently having his Covid-19 vaccination.

The former Tottenham star will not start training until next week to comply with government rules and will definitely miss this Saturday’s FA Cup fourth-round trip to Everton.

Eriksen is unlikely to be ready to make his debut against Manchester City next Wednesday.

But he could make an emotional debut in the home game against Crystal Palace on February 12 if fit enough.

⚽ Read our Transfer News Live blog for the very latest rumours, gossip and done deals