EXPERTS are working to identify the body of a suspected murder victim pulled from the sea off Germany 28 years ago.

The 6ft 5in man reportedly dubbed “the Gentleman” was found in Heligoland, in the north-west of the country, but despite his distinctive appearance, the case has stumped investigators.

The mystery man’s weighted down body showed signs of injuries and it’s thought he was killed several months before he was found by border guards.

He may have been thrown from a ship or driven to the remove archipelago and then dumped in the sea.

Now police in Germany have launched a fresh appeal in a bid to identify the man, who was aged between 45 and 50 when he died.

They are being helped by a team cold case investigators from London’s Goldsmiths University, as well as experts from University of Staffordshire and Plymouth Marjon University .

Professor Fiona Gabbert, head of Goldsmiths' Forensic Psychology Unit, said the team is using technique which urges people to think about events from the time the man disappeared.

Top stories from the era include Pablo Escobar’s death, the IRA Heathrow bombings, the death of Kurt Cobain, O.J. Simpson’s arrest and Nelson Mandela becoming President of South Africa.

“We believe that the man is likely to have gone missing somewhere between the end of 1993 and the first six months of 1994 so we’re calling on the public to think back to that time,” said Prof. Gabbert

“Our research shows that activating memories from a particular period can help individuals remember more information from that particular time so we’re asking you to read through a list of news and events that happened in 1993/1994.

“Take a while to think where you were and who you knew at this time. Do you think you might know the man we are seeking to identify?”

German police are also being helped by UK charity Locate International who have appealed for people to come forward and issued a likeness of the dead man.

They are urging anyone who might not have felt comfortable at the time to “relieve yourself of this secret” adding “loyalties change”.

Investigators say there are strong clues the man was from an English-speaking area so may have been British or had a close relationship with Britain

His black or navy leather loafers were a size 11 made by upmarket English shoe manufacturer Church & Co.

He was wearing a 100 per cent wool tie with a base colour of dark blue, and with grey, brown, orange and green diagonal stripes with instructions in English and French to dry clean only.