NOUGHTIES pop sensation Samantha Mumba has been spotted looking unrecognisable after returning to the spotlight.

The Irish singer was a huge hit back in the 2000s after releasing her singles Gotta Tell You and Baby Come Over - which soared high in the charts.

Samantha, 39, rose to fame as a teen when she was just 17, releasing her hit singles - which reached the top five in the UK, Ireland and the US.

Now, the mother-of-one is returning to the spotlight with a huge comeback with Dublin radio's 98FM - and looking all grown up.

Fans will remember Samantha as a fresh-faced teen when she made her music debut - with long straight hair and a bright smile.

Now, the star has allowed her natural curls to be on show as she is seen for the first time in the new promotional shots for her upcoming radio show.

Samantha, who is due to host Good Time Anthems, looked to have aged backwards as she showed off her glamorous make-up look to the cameras.

Smouldering for the snaps, the pop star could be seen in a low-cut gold glittering top, with matching shimmering eye-shadow and lip gloss.

The singer is due to present the Saturday night music show from this weekend, showcasing the best of classic and contemporary dance anthems.

She said of her return to the spotlight: "As someone who grew up listening to 98FM and literally calling in with song requests, so I could record them on my tape recorder, this is a lovely full circle!”

Samantha has kept a low profile since her pop sensation days - after appearing on Dancing On Ice in 2008.

She is said to have been targetted by Celebrity Big Brother bosses following her TV stint, but declined the offer as she wanted to avoid the "stressful environment".

A source close to the singer told the Mirror that Samantha had a reported huge six figure sum being offered to her to appear on the show.

They explained that she was too busy writing music, preparing to perform and recording an album to commit to the show.

The insider said: "She was on their list of people to ask every year but she kept turning it down - so they don’t bother asking anymore.

"Their last offer was well into the six figures, but she’d never do it. It’s just not for her. She knows a lot of people who’ve done CBB and they’ve all said how stressful the environment can be."

Outside her showbiz life, Samantha married her policeman beau Torray Scales and together they welcomed their first child, Sage, in 2015.