THE Bay fans are convinced they've figured out who killed Saif Rahman after spotting a HUGE clue during Wednesday night's episode.

Over the past few weeks fans of the ITV drama have been trying to work out who brutally murdered the aspiring young boxer.

And after tonight's episode, many now think that they've solved the crime.

After Saif's funeral, Erin Fischer went over to her pal Molly Williams' house to see how she was doing.

Molly opened up about how hard she found it saying goodbye to her boyfriend, but was rudely interrupted by her brother Kyle, who old her to turn her music down.

When the teen went downstairs to complain to her mum about her sibling, Erin accidentally dropped her phone on the floor and went to pick it up.

Erin was left speechless when she found £2,000 hidden under her bed.

When she asked Molly why she had the huge stash of cash, she said that Saif asked her to keep it for him.

She was also very awkward when she Erin her what she was going to do with it.

Viewers are now convinced that Molly has something to do with Saif's death after keeping schtum about the money.

One wrote on Twitter: "Don't trust the girlfriend #thebay."

Another said: "I don’t trust his girlfriend #thebay."

"Prime suspect has changed to... Seth’s girlfriend," a third chimed in.

Last week viewers were bowled over by ITV’s “phenomenal” use of British Sign Language in the crime drama.

In the scene, school pupil Jamal spoke to DS Karen Hobson following his brother Saif’s death and how his family treat him poorly because he’s deaf.

"I'm not important. They all ignore me. They think because I can't hear I don't listen”, he told the policewoman.

Many rushed to social media to praise the scene.

One wrote: "Excellent to see sign language used so well in The Bay".

"The representation of British Sign Language in The Bay has been phenomenal. It's fantastic they've invested time into delivering lengthy scenes to properly portray it on TV. Representation always matters, but awareness is of equal importance," a second added.

A third tweeted: "The sign language is everything we need to see moving forward and something I would love to learn personally".

The third series of the show hit our screens last month.

The police procedural series, set in Morecambe, detective sergeant Jenn Townsend try and figure out a murder when a body washes up on the bay.