REAL Housewives can get messy, and so can their homes.

From Meghan King's dirty bathroom to Mary Cosby's "crusty" fireplace to the buzz-worthy device found in Ramona Singer's chicken dish, here's a look.

Real Housewives of Orange County alum Jim Edmonds toured around his St. Louis home in 2020 after his then-estranged wife and star Meghan, 37, had just moved out - but she didn't take everything.

In a series of shocking Instagram videos, the 51-year-old ex NBA star showed that there was "trash" and "poop" in the bathroom.

"Didn't realize that someone would leave a house this dirty and messy," he said on his former "tenant" who was then living there.

While zooming in on a skid mark in the toilet, he said: "Some poop in the toilet."

Jim and Meghan tied the knot in 2014 and split in 2019 after cheating allegations came to light - she wed President Joe Biden’s nephew Cuffe Biden Owens, in October 2021, though they were done for two months later.

They share three kids; daughter Aspen, 4, and twin sons Hart and Hayes, 3.

Real Housewives of New York City star Leah McSweeney, 37, got buzzed, and left something that buzzed, at Ramona's 2020 Hamptons bash.

During the party at Ramona's vacation home, which Ramona promptly left, the then-newcomer fell off the bandwagon and infamously put a vibrator in the chicken.

A drunken Leah also got naked, hurled a lit tiki torch across the backyard and then jumped in Ramona's pool.

She yelled at the cameras: "I don't give a f**k. Whatever!" She then convinced Tinsley Mortimer to take a dip, yelling “rip it off, b***h.

Sonja Morgan also got in on the skinny dipping party adding: “I feel young again and fun and careless.”

Ramona returned and was furious to see the state of her home the following morning - champagne floating in the pool and the kitchen in disarray.

She soon discovered a device in the chicken dish and exclaimed: “Really? Really? Really? Talk about no respect. Actually, I’m not mad. I’m not angry. I’m p****d! So disrespectful!”

The chicken vibrator culprit remained a mystery until later on - though Leah squawked on Instagram before long.

Ramona, 65, was slammed for her own cleanliness - specifically, the way she cleaned her toilets during the lockdown.

In a video originally posted by her daughter then shared to Twitter, Ramona cleaned a toilet in her Boca Raton, Florida home by swiping the toilet brush gently over its every surface, theoretically just spreading the germs.

Twitter users were shocked by Ramona's cleaning style: "The horror movie of the summer I didn’t know I needed," one wrote.

"This why you can’t be using anybody[s] bathroom," wrote another.

"Doo doo particles all over the seat and the outside," commented a third.

Soon after, Dorinda Medley shaded her co-star, posting a video moaning suggestively and scrubbing her floor in black silky lingerie in a similar fashion.

RHOSLC star Mary Cosby, 49, has received backlash for her messy and interestingly decorated Utah home featured on the show.

It includes a green dog pee-stained rug that her dogs regularly pee on because they confuse it with grass, a "creepy" mannequin collection and a fireplace she once called "crusty."

While appearing on an October 2021 episode of Watch What Happens Live, Mary addressed her home - which she shares with husband Robert Sr.

After host Andy Cohen asked her about the green rug she said: “It looks just like grass and I think dogs are color blind" adding it will "definitely be replaced."

However, Mary insisted she will never get rid of the collection of festive mannequin heads in her closet.

Fans have poked fun at Mary's mannequins on social media, as one Twitter user previously wrote: "I know good and damn well Mary’s kooky a** talks to those mannequins whether Robert Sr is around or not. Girl, don’t blame it on the pandemic. Those mannequins are her friends lol."

While discussing her additionally bold living room chairs, the Bravo star told Andy: "I think the childish side of me bought those chairs...and the colorful side."

She also discussed her home in a confessional in a September 2021 episode of RHOSLC:

"I don't know, it's like a marriage. Everything's stale."