IS there anything that will persuade the boss of the Metropolitan Police to resign?

The list of catastrophes that have piled up under the watch of Cressida Dick is hard to believe.

Never was a woman better named. And I don’t mean the Cressida bit. (That’s just a little weird).

The latest news is that coppers in her force engaged in the most staggeringly hateful behaviour.

Describing how they’d like to “hate-f***” female colleagues, or rape them. How they’d take pleasure out of “killing black children” and “f***ing gays”.

Why were these animals not rooted out of the force?

How can women, gays or black people have any confidence in the Met while they are still there?

The Home Secretary, Priti Patel, has called the latest report the consequence of a “failure of leadership”.

Well, Priti — you know who the leader is, no?

All this stuff comes on top of the Met’s incredibly ham-fisted handling of the Partygate affair.

Inexplicably, the coppers were not interested in investigating breaches of Covid regulations by our betters in government.

Despite harassing the rest of us over minor infractions.

And then, when forced into action, they effectively scuppered Sue Gray’s report. Rendering it close to meaningless.

This is all down to Big Dick.

With their usual sluggish pace they’re examining exactly what did take place in Downing Street, three months after the allegations were made.

But that’s not all. You will remember the case of poor Sarah Everard, murdered by a Metropolitan Police officer.

When Dick was asked what women should do if they felt threatened while out alone in London, what did she say?

Maybe they should flag down a bus.

That was her answer.

Meanwhile, her force was horribly heavy handed at a protest over Sarah’s killing, arresting demonstrators.

Sarah’s killer was part of exactly the culture outlined in this latest report — and yet only two of the coppers named have been sacked.

Nine are still there.

All of that would be bad enough.

But then there was Dick’s stewardship of the almost hilariously stupid “Operation Midland”.

This was a ludicrous inquiry into a supposed ring of establishment paedophiles.

All based on the evidence of a criminal fantasist.

Many lives were ruined as the Met went about its work.

An inquiry by Sir Richard Henriques found no fewer than 43 serious mistakes committed by the force.

All of this should have been more than enough to see the back of the benighted woman.

The word around Westminster is that Dick is still there because all the potential replacements are even more woke and useless than she is.

Our police have become too politicised. Too bothered about their image. Too busy chasing down people who send rude tweets. Too slow to tackle the crimes that really hurt — street crime, violence, burglary.

We need a force in which the people who pay for it can have faith, trust and confidence.

Black and white, gay and straight, men and women.

That is not remotely a description of the Metropolitan Police at the moment.

Say goodbye to Cressida, Priti. Give us a police force we can once again respect.

Aldi, why not fly in the face of sickly kids’ cakes?

LOOKS to me like Aldi won the Battle of the Stupid Sickly Larvae-Themed Cakes.

The store is allowed to keep selling Cuthbert The Caterpillar Cake.

That’s the German firm’s take on Marks & Spencer’s incredibly successful product, Colin the Caterpillar.

Couldn’t Aldi have done something a bit more original? There’s loads of insects out there, after all.

How about Harry The Nasty B*d Horsefly Cake? Or Marjorie the Maggot?

This is not all white

THE ghastly Whoopi Goldberg said on her American show, The View, that the Holocaust was nothing to do with racism.

That will have come as a surprise to both Hitler and, indeed, the six million Jews who were murdered.

The rather ignorant woman was forced to say sorry and has been suspended by ABC News, which broadcasts the show, for two weeks.

She explained that she thought it wasn’t racist because it was just “two groups of white people”.

In other words, it’s only possible to be racist towards black people.

Sharon Osbourne was sacked from a similar show for defending a statement by Piers Morgan.

As Piers tweeted this week: “Bet Whoopi doesn’t get fired.”

REFEREE Kevin Friend was dropped from the Premier League for his awful performance in Liverpool’s victory at Crystal Palace last week.

And what happens? The bugger turns up at The Den to ref Millwall’s game against Preston.

Why do we have to put up with him? Such an annoying, pompous little man.

If he’s not fit to referee in the Premier League he’s not fit to ref in the Championship either.

Send him to Hackney Marshes and see how he gets on in the Sunday league.

Where are the good jobs?

THE best jobs in the UK are in the areas of IT, engineering and technology, according to a new survey.

They provide the greatest satisfaction and the best wages.

You won’t get one of those jobs if you do a degree in gender studies at the Winnie Mandela Polytechnic of Elmers End at a cost of £10,000 per year.

Nor if you do a degree in history (or “resentment studies” as it’s now known), for that matter.

You might, though, if you take an apprenticeship.

As I mentioned last week, too many kids are going to university to study pointless subjects.

Too few are taking up apprenticeships.

But that’s where all the good jobs are.

He was an environmentalist worried about deforestation in Africa.

Driving home in Hampshire he was killed when a large cherry tree fell on his car during a storm.

There is no justice or fairness in life, is there?

RATHER disappointing to see my old hero Neil Young trying to bully Spotify.

The Canadian singer songwriter said he wanted his music pulled from the site if it continued to keep Joe Rogan on its roster.

Rogan is a libertarian who challenges orthodox views on Covid.

Because Young disagrees with Rogan, he’s thrown his toys out of the pram.

Kudos, though, to James Blunt, who threatened to put MORE music out on Spotify if Rogan wasn’t removed.

How cheering to see a pop star with a sense of humour – and a sense of self-awareness.