THE BROTHER of a bride-to-be is distraught over whether or not he should attend her destination wedding.

He said he’s going to have a tough time affording it, but there’s a completely separate issue that’s caused his family to label him as selfish.

“My sister got engaged recently and truth be told I am beyond happy for her, as me and her haven't always had the best relationship growing up,” the brother wrote at the beginning of his story anonymously shared on Reddit.

He added that his sister has apologized for her past wrongdoings and he’s pleased she found her true love.

“That being said, she wants to have a destination wedding,” the man wrote, adding that the location is in Europe, and he lives in America.

“I told her that having a destination wedding, she needs to be fully aware that people won't be able to attend [and] she replied: ‘Only the people that truly care about me will be invited and expected to go anyway.’”

The brother then responded that he’s not sure if he will make it to the wedding and said: “I can respect your choice to have a destination wedding and if I had one I would only expect me, my partner, and the marriage officiant to be there."

His guidance did not go over well with his sister, who told him it would be horrible to not attend her “once in a lifetime experience.”

Furthermore, when the sister gushed about how much money she was spending per guest for her wedding, the brother claimed he mentioned helping with his ticket costs, to which she replied a stern “No.”

Explaining his situation further, the poster wrote: “Currently I am under financial stress, and while the wedding date isn’t set in stone, I don't see myself financially making it.

“My mother also thinks I would be an a**hole if I didn't set aside money for a wedding over a year out, but the idea of it just seems daunting.”

However, that’s not the only reason his family is pressuring him to prioritize the wedding: They know he has a trip planned with his girlfriend to Paris.

Therefore, his family is arguing that if he can expense a fun trip to Paris in advance, he should be able to “figure out” his sister’s big day.

“That being said, I had used my credit card points (accumulated over years) for my flight and my girlfriend paid her share,” the upset brother explained.

“Both me and my girlfriend don't have incredible savings and I'd be lying if I said I'm not considering the logistics of bringing my girlfriend to the wedding as well.”

He concluded the post by asking the internet what he should do, and he received some favorable responses.

“You and your girlfriend have saved for your trip with lots of planning.

“That has nothing to do with your sister's wedding,” one supporter wrote.

“It would be nice if you could do both, but a trip to Paris with your girlfriend is a very different trip to a family destination wedding.”

“Anyone who expects someone to be at their destination wedding is a d**che.

“Why do people always pretend they’re having a destination wedding for their guests?

“Unless you’re flying everyone there and paying for their accommodation, you’re not doing them any favors and you’re doing it for YOU so you can say you got married in Greece/Italy/Spain/Wherever,” a second sympathizer slammed.

A third person added: “You do not need to attend someone else's wedding if it is detrimental to your job, education, financial well-being, personal financial goals, or conflicts with your own life events. Period.”

Weddings are known to cause family drama, as exemplified by one man who claimed he uninvited his own mother from his wedding after she refused to give him the same amount of cash for his big day that she gave his sisters for theirs.

Plus, a bride revealed she uninvited her sister from her wedding, but she showed up in a white gown anyway.