GOING on holiday with kids can be chaotic, but imagine what it’s like when you have 22 children to look after.

Sue and Noel Radford, parents to Britain’s biggest family, revealed where they are taking their bumper brood on holiday next.

Speaking in a Q&A on their YouTube channel, Sue said: “Well this was a much-asked question - do we have any holidays booked or planned for this year?”

Noel replied: “We can’t really book anything, we have a lot of commitments this year and stuff we want to get on with.

“We definitely want to get one in October, so we are thinking Florida in October time.”

They said they haven’t booked anything yet, but Sue revealed they are “itching” to get back to the popular destination.

Sue said their family absolutely loves Florida, and on their last trip they especially loved Discovery Cove and the Chocolate Emporium outside of Universal Studios.

She said: “We loved that day, it was amazing. We didn’t even do swimming with dolphins, we literally just swam with stingray, fish.

“We asked the kids what their favourite day from the whole of the Florida trip and everyone of them said Discovery Cove.”

When they go away as a family, savvy Sue uses labelled bin bags to pack her seven suitcases - so she doesn't get mixed up between the kids.

She previously said: "The packing process is hard work, but if I put each child’s clothes into a bin bag and label whose it is, it makes it a lot easier when we get there.

"Then I can get the bags out and put them away, rather than rooting through, trying to figure out whose is whose.

"Normally we take about seven suitcases with us."

Sue and Noel are parents to Chris, 32, Sophie, 28, Chloe, 26, Jack, 24, Daniel, 22, Luke, 21, Millie, 20, Katie, 19, James, 18, Ellie, 16, Aimee, 15, Josh, 14, Max, 13, Tillie, 11, Oscar, 10, Casper, nine, Hallie, six, Phoebe, five, Archie, four, Bonnie, three, and Heidie, one.

Sadly the couple's 17th child Alfie was still born on July 6, 2014.

The family famously doesn’t rely on benefits and is supported by their pie shop business.

We shared how the Radfords revealed their plans to build their own home – after spending thousands doing up their millionaire mansion.

And we revealed how mum-of-22 Sue Radford lives a millionaire’s lifestyle with a £30k Range Rover, outdoor cinema & hot tub.

Previously, the Radford family got even LARGER as Sue and Noel announced a new grandson was on the way.