YOU'LL want to save every piece of wallpaper scrap after learning how to use it on more than just the wall.

A WOMAN shared how to go about upgrading your drawers with a special touch of leftover wallpaper — and people are raving about it.

The home designer, who just goes by Lauren on social media, shared a clip demonstrating how she redecorates her kitchen drawers.

In the video, she took a brush and used it to add glue to one side of the drawer.

Next, she placed her leftover wallpaper onto the side of the drawer with adhesive.

While using a sharp blade, she trimmed along the border of the drawer to get rid of any excess paper.

Then she added a little extra glue onto the drawer and recommended doing so if needed.

Once dried, she simply reinstalled the drawers back.

After having finished her drawers in a manner of minutes, users were amazed at the transformation.

One person wrote: "Your drawers are gorgeous! The kind of finishing touch that really makes a room feel unique and special. Thanks for the how-to!"

A second said: "I love this idea so much!"

And a third continued praising her creative idea: "Oh great, now I need a whole new kitchen. I love this."

While you can trust placing your things into the drawers at home, a travel expert shared why you should never use the drawers in a hotel room.

She wrote: “Dresser drawers are not on a maid’s cleaning list.

"So if a traveler threw dirty underwear in a drawer all week, you will be contaminating your clothing by using any drawers without cleaning or disinfecting them first.

“I carry purse-sized Lysol on car trips or break-out bleach wipes from a zip bag after air travel.”

And the drawers aren't the only unhygienic thing about a hotel room.

A former hotel manager reported the duvets aren't washed as often as they should be.

She said: “They wash them maybe once a year which is really freaking gross.

“So, the first thing you wanna do when you walk into your room – don’t go lay down on your bed, take the duvet off!”