MANCHESTER UNITED striker Mason Greenwood has been banished by England.

He will not be considered for Three Lions selection until any potential legal proceedings against him are completed.

Greenwood was released from custody on bail 'pending further investigation' by Greater Manchester Police yesterday after being arrested on suspicion of rape.

Police also announced further investigations into allegations of assault, sexual assault and making threats to kill.

United have suspended the 20-year-old, while sponsors including Nike have distanced themselves from him.

SunSport understands England boss Gareth Southgate has no interest in even considering selecting the striker until legal proceedings end.

Greenwood has not featured for England since being sent home from the Nations League squad in Iceland in September 2020.

After making his debut in Reykjavik, he was told to leave - alongside Manchester City’s Phil Foden - after they broke Covid quarantine guidelines to meet two women in the team hotel.

The FA will respect both United’s stance and the criminal process but there are no plans for Wembley chiefs to get involved yet.

Greenwood was suspended indefinitely from United hours after the allegations surfaced on social media.

Greater Manchester Police confirmed on Wednesday that the £75,000-a-week star has now been bailed.

A statement said: "A 20-year-old man arrested (on Sunday 30 January 2022) on suspicion of the rape and assault of a woman has been released on bail pending further investigation."

Police crime scene investigation vans were seen parked outside the footballer’s house after the claims were made on Sunday.

Security staff, thought to have been provided by his club, were present at a second home he owns nearby and they confirmed that his parents were inside.

In a statement, Man Utd said: "Manchester United reiterates its strong condemnation of violence of any kind.

"As previously communicated, Mason Greenwood will not train with, or play for, the club until further notice."

The Manchester United Supporters Trust (MUST) tweeted: “The club has now confirmed that Mason Greenwood will not return to training or play matches until further notice.

"MUST fully support the decision of the club in this regard."