SUN readers want Budweiser to ship over the world’s first zero carb lager as soon as possible to save waistlines.

Bud Light Next is expected to go down a storm at its US launch next week.

The beer is four per cent alcohol by volume but packs just 80 calories – less than half that of a regular pint.

Jackie Sargerson, 62, landlady of The Sun in Leighton Buzzard said she would love to stock it and regular Mark Hiles, 31, a metal worker added: “I don’t care about the calories, but my wife counts them. So let’s get it over here and taste it.”

Electrician Douglas Laine, 36, in Nottingham said: "A zero carb beer sounds like a great idea.

"I like the fact it is low calorie but isn't alcohol-free, which is usually the case with most 'healthy' beers, and you always lose a bit of flavour.

"It would be fantastic if Budweiser could launch it in the UK as well.

"Any lager that you can drink without putting weight on and adding to the beer belly would be hugely welcomed here, I think."

Lucy Stubbs, 19, a fashion design student at Sheffield Hallam University, added: "I would definitely drink this over other beers.

"I work out and am quite conscious of the calories so I don't drink beer often but I would drink this.

"If it's a hot summer’s day sometimes I crave a beer and this is something I would go for."

Budweiser developed the new tipple to keep pace with healthier lifestyles.

The firm refused to give away the recipe, saying: “Does a magician ever share their secrets?”

But bosses reckon the “refreshing, super crisp flavour” will be a hit with customers.

Marketing vice-president Mr Goeler said: “We are pushing the beer category to new heights.

Nutritionist Annemarie Aburrow, of expertdietitian.co.uk, said the drink could be more suitable for people with diabetes looking for a lower carb intake, or those who are trying to watch their calorie intake and lose weight.”

Pubs and shops were warned they could run out of dry roasted peanuts within days after food giant KP Snacks was held to ransom by Russian cyber thugs.

The brand - which produces Hula Hoops, Skips and KP Nuts - was hacked at the end of last week.

They have now been given five days to pay up before highly confidential data is leaked online.

Retailers, supermarkets and pubs have been warned to expect severe delays and cancellations to deliveries.

the firm said: “We have teams working through the resolution, but it is unknown when it will be resolved.”