THE secret to Victoria Beckham’s svelte figure has finally been revealed: eating the same meal every day for 25 years.

Husband David 46, revealed yesterday: “I get quite emotional about food and wine, when I’m eating something great I want everyone to try it.

“Unfortunately I’m married to someone that has eaten the same thing for the last 25 years. Since I met her she only eats grilled fish, steamed vegetables, she will very rarely deviate from that.”

But what if you had to eat the same meal everyday? What would you choose?

Here, our Sun columnists share what they would love to stomach daily.

AS a creature of habit, much like Posh I’d be perfectly happy tucking into the same meal day in, day out.

Unlike Posh, it wouldn’t be white fish and steamed veg.

In a dream world, where calories didn’t exist, I’d wolf down a McDonald’s strawberry milkshake – the small starter – followed by a double patty bacon cheeseburger, sweet potato fries and a mayonnaisey coleslaw.

All washed down with a small thimble (bottle) of rose, and a warm chocolate brownie.

MY choice would be Croque Madame. It’s basically ponced-up cheese on toast, with a fried egg on top. It’s perfect food which I could eat every day. AWFUL for your waistline and your cholesterol.

Try it yourself and you won’t go back - here’s the recipe.

Lightly butter two slices of white bread. Make some bechamel sauce with flour, milk, butter and a little nutmeg. Put mustard on one slice of the bread, then ham on top. Then a few spoons of bechamel.

Then some grated Emmental cheese. Put the other slice on top then cover the upper side with bechamel and cheese. Bake for twenty minutes.

Fry an egg and put it on top. Devour like a pig.

IF you’re doing for the same dish a day, keep it classic with the Sunday roast.

I’d have to scrap the beef for a crispy roast pork belly, with a side of apple sauce.

And you can’t miss out a home-made Yorkshire pudding, a serving of crispy roast potatoes and some root vet. Never mind Rolls-Royces, football and The Beatles.

The greatest British export has to be the Sunday roast.

For me, it’s Britain on a plate, reminiscent of the countryside, dining with family and friends, and the Great British pub.

My repeated meal would have to include several courses.

The first would be chicken soup, followed by my grandmother’s cholent, a traditional Jewish stew of meat, potato, beans and barley, and finally a plate of herrings.

For me food is about the joyous moments in your memory and history.

These three plates are all of the happiest moments of my distilled into perfect dishes full of family joy and celebration. The shocking reality is that I don’t believe anyone can be any good at sex who doesn’t completely delight in food.

Sushi. It is far more than raw fish, it’s all about the sweet vinegared rice that plays host to a world of tasty goodness.

It’s really the Japanese equivalent of a sandwich. Once upon a time, the Japanese ate their fish and chicken separate from their sweet rice, then someone lost in the mists of history had the bright idea of putting them together (like our Earl of Sandwich famously did with some bread and a hunk of meat while at the gaming table).

I did not grow up eating sushi – I would have run a mile at the sight of fatty tuna – but a long marriage to a Japanese woman has made me think of sushi as the best food in the world.

And you can eat as much of it as you like. The man who is tired of sushi is tired of food.

MY favourite meal for any occassion is Spaghetti alla Vongole – pasta, tomato and a mix of seafood. So it would definitely be my choice for my everyday meal.

I will never tire of pasta and all its possibilities and I absolutely LOVE seafood. And who doesn’t love garlic?

I genuinely believe I could eat this every single day without tiring of it.

One meal for the rest of my life?

It’s got to be chicken madras, pilau rice and a keema naan, from the Durbar Indian restaurant in London.

If I had just one meal for the rest of my life, it would have to be tomato soup with a cheese and pickle sandwich.

It’s good old comfort food and who doesn’t love that.

Even though I’ve not eaten meat for eight years, I’d go for chip chop chicken and chips with curry sauce poured all over the top.

This is what my Grandad used to buy me before every West Brom home game. The smell of it permeating through the chip paper as we drove from the chip shop to the ground was almost too much to bear.

I’d sit in the car eating it while he went for a couple of pints in the Supporters’ Club bar. I’d just tear into it feeling like the happiest person in the world. I can taste it now.

I might just add something green to it though, to be a little but healthy.

Mushy peas will do nicely, thanks