A KILLER who slit a little girl's throat as she played in a park on Mother's Day has lost her bid to have her sentence reduced.

Eltiona Skana attacked seven-year-old Emily Jones as she rode her scooter through Queen's Park in Bolton, Greater Manchester.

The youngster, who was with her dad, spotted mum Sarah Barnes out for a jog and called out to her.

But as she passed by, Skana, who was sitting alone, rose to her feet and slashed her with a craft knife.

The 31-year-old was initially handed a life sentence with a minimum of eight years after she pleaded guilty to manslaughter by means of diminished responsibility.

That was later increased to ten years and eight months after the sentencing judge admitted the minimum term was "calculated in error".

She will be detained in a hospital until it's no longer necessary - and then transferred to a high-security prison to serve the rest of her term.

Skana then launched an appeal to have the sentence reduced - which cost £70,000 of taxpayers' money in legal aid.

But today, three judges dismissed the bid by her barrister Simon Csoka QC, the Manchester Evening News reports.

The lag appeared today via video link at the Royal Courts of Justice to hear their decision.

Mr Csoka told the court none of the three psychiatrists who gave evidence at the trial had been told by Skana what she was experiencing during her psychotic episode - or why she targeted Emily.

"To carry out the act in a busy park on a Sunday is, in itself, evidence of some deluded reality that is playing out entirely in Ms Skana's mind, and then tragically playing out in the real world," he said.

But the judges ruled that there was "sufficient evidence" to find Skana "knew what she did was wrong".

The killer attempted to run from the scene after committing the horror, they said.

Lady Macur, one of the three to make the ruling, said: “We consider that the judge bore in mind all responsibilities to the sentencing exercise that he must conduct and did so in a fashion that is to be commended.

“We accept the sentence was severe but we regard it to be in line with the circumstances of the case as a whole.”

She said Emily's family have faced "trauma and tragedy".

“We express deepest sympathies for Emily’s loss. Words cannot adequately encompass the grief that her family and friends have been subject to," she added.

Emily's mum and dad paid tribute to a "beautiful, spirited little girl" following her death.

Dad Mark also read out a powerful victim impact statement to the court when Skana was in the dock.

"How can you put into words how you feel about the senseless death of your only child? It is just too difficult to comprehend," he said.

"Our future has also been taken away. How can you enjoy life when the biggest part of it isn't there anymore?

"We will never see Emily grow and become the wonderful young lady we knew she would become, we will never see her hold her own child in her arms, as we held her.

"How can an innocent child, playing in the park, be killed in such a violent and monstrous way?"

He has vowed to ensure Skana is never released.

"I will keep fighting tooth and nail for her to stay there for the rest of her life - whether it's ten years or 20 it won't be enough for me," he said.

"I will do all I can to keep her in prison for the rest of her life."

In 2017, Skana stabbed her mother and in another incident attacked her sister.

She has been admitted to psychiatric hospitals three times.