FANS were moved by a "sad" resurfaced video of Kanye West sweetly supporting Kim Kardashian's lawyer dreams.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians clip came before their messy 2021 divorce.

In a resurfaced clip from her reality show, Kim, 41, was visibly nervous about setting off on her then-burgeoning law career - but was instantly reinforced by her then-husband Kanye, 44.

"I don't know what to do," the reality star began while wearing a black suit and low-cut shirt, sitting on a large home movie theater sofa with Ye. "It's a lot of work ... I just don't know if I want to take time away from the kids and you."

Kanye gently responded: "Once you manage your time, you'll be able to ... give attention to me, attention to the kids and attention to law which you're so passionate about."

Ye continued: "You know what's fire about that and why we're blessed - to be able to get the mentors … it's beautiful, it’s like your dad [Rob Kardashian Sr.].”

Kim said in confessional: “From day one Kanye has pushed me to do what I want to do. So the fact that he is supporting me in this journey ... gives me confidence.”

"Maybe you can find somebody to get me out of some of my f**ked up deals,” Ye then joked, bragging about the future: “My wife a lawyer now.”

Fans flooded the YouTube comments section of the newly resurfaced 2019 clip.

"We miss Kimye," one wrote earlier this month. "Kanye really understands Kim and her feelings and knows how to talk to her."

Another commented: "Say what you want about ye but he is supporting his wife 100%"

A third wrote, "No one can deny that they're so cute together," while a fourth commented last year: "Don't divorce," and another: "I'm so sad they’re divorcing."

"Wow Kanye is making sense! And giving good advice to Kim!" wrote a sixth.

Others noted how, upon walking into the room, Kim complimented Kanye's fur coat and he responded in classic Ye fashion, bluntly noting: "It's a sample."

"She said she liked your jacket Kanye," another YouTuber wrote with cry-laughing emojis.

Kim announced that she's passed the "baby bar" legal exam last month - after previously failing it three times in two years.

This marked the star making it halfway through the process of becoming a lawyer after two years of studying.

The "baby bar" - officially known as the First-Year Law Students’ Examination - is an exam taken by students not attending accredited law schools, and comes before the main bar exam which will allow them to practice law in California.

Meanwhile, Kanye's mention of "mentors" during the clip may have been referring to a parental loss both share.

The rapper was extremely close with his mother Donda West - naming an album (or perhaps two albums) after his English teacher mother who passed away in 2007.

Kim's father, meanwhile, was famous lawyer Rob Sr. who was O.J. Simpson's defense attorney and died in 2003.

Kanye's support of Kim's law career is a stark contrast to the Kanye of late.

Kim filed for divorce from Kanye in February 2021 after nearly seven years of marriage - but his raging has continued.

In a new interview with Hollywood Unlocked, Kanye criticized his ex-wife for kissing boyfriend Pete Davidson on live TV when she made her hosting debut on SNL in October 2021.

During the episode, Kim and Pete locked lips in a sketch about Aladdin and Jasmin.

Noting that he was in New York City to support Kim on the show, Kanye said: "How you gonna bring me to SNL and then kiss the dude you dating right in front of me?"

Kanye also claimed he "went and got the laptop from Ray J,” adding: "Everybody’s like, 'Oh, that’s cool.'"

He continued: "I gave it to her, and she cried when she saw it. You know why she cried when she saw that laptop? It represents how much she’s been used."

The rapper recently purchased the $4.5M home directly across the street from Kim's $60M mansion in Hidden Hills, LA.

The dad of four also put out a new song called EAZY that threatened the comedian.

He rapped: "God saved me from the crash, just so I can beat Pete Davidson's a**."

Pete reportedly thought the song was "hilarious" though he and Kim have reportedly beefed up their security.

As a source told the New York Post last week, Kanye's threats are "actually bringing Pete and Kim closer together."

In addition to Kim and Kanye share kids North, eight, Saint, six, Chicago, four and Psalm, two.