LOVE Is Blind is a psychological and social experiment designed as a dating show, uniting couples behind closed doors.

Here's everything we know about the second season of the show.

Love Is Blind: When does the second season premiere on Netflix?

Love is Blind returns to Netflix on February 11, 2022, with a group of 30 Chicago-based singles ready to meet their future spouse.

The contestants for season two include:

The first five episodes with drop on the 11th, with episodes six through nine coming out on February 18.

Love Is Blind's second finale episode will air on February 25.

What is Love Is Blind about?

Hosted by Nick Lachey and his wife Vanessa, the reality show follows a multitude of men and women brave enough to look for love on the ultimate extended blind date.

The first season of the hit dating show saw contestants spend 10 days in separate pods talking to their dates through a wall without actually being able to see them.

The concept keeps the couples completely separate until they decide to get engaged.

It is only after a proposal takes place that they are able to see each other.

Following their engagements, the couples take a romantic trip to Mexico, move in together, and then make their way to the altar - all in the space of one month.

Netflix said the show is for "Singles who want to be loved for who they are, rather than what they look like."

What happened in the first season of Love Is Blind?

Season one of Love Is Blind ended in March of 2020.

Love Is Blind: After The Altar premiered in 2021, revisiting the couples and their lives since the show - with or without each other.

They tied the knot in 2018 on Lauren's birthday - November 16.

Amber Pike and Matt Barnett are another couple who remain married following the end of season one.

On-again, off-again couple Damian Powers and Giannina Giabelli did not end up getting married but did remain together for years.

As of 2022, it appears the couple is not together.

Three more couples didn't end up making their love last.

Mark Cuevas and Jessica Batten failed to say "I Do" at the altar, as did Kelly Chase and Kenny Barnes.

Since their split, Kenny has gone on to date Alexandra Garrison, putting a ring on her finger in 2020.

Kelly now has her own podcast.

Jessica is also engaged, to Dr. Ben McGrath.

Mark and his new partner, Aubrey Rainey, welcomed their first child together in 2021.

The two are expecting another in child 2022.