A TOXIC culture of sexism, racism and bullying in the Met Police is down to a leadership failure, says Priti Patel.

The Home Secretary yesterday took a swipe at force Commissioner Dame Cressida Dick, blaming her for the issues.

An Independent Office for Police Conduct report this week revealed officers at Charing Cross nick sent vile messages to each other about raping women, the Holocaust and killing black children.

Ms Patel told MPs on the Home Affairs Committee on Wednesday that the problem was not isolated and there had been "too many instances where, in policing, we just see the most appalling behaviours."

She added: "There are problems with the culture, and some aspects of the culture, within the Metropolitan Police.

"I do think there are some very, very serious and significant matters that need, not just following up, but further investigation.”

The Home Secretary said they were not “one-off incidences” and “this is not isolated” adding: “I also think it shows a failure of leadership in some quarters.

But she said she has confidence in Dame Cress but "change is required".

Policing minister Kit Malthouse was not full of praise for Dame Cressida, telling MPs she was handed a job extension because “we thought she was the best person for the job."

Fourteen officers were investigated by the watchdog, of whom two were found to have a case to answer for gross misconduct.

One was sacked and another resigned before he would have been dismissed.

Nine remain serving officers, while another is working as a contractor in a staff role.

Yesterday Dame Cressida was hauled to City Hall for a dressing down by London Mayor Sadiq Khan.

A source close to the Mayor said: “Sadiq was furious reading the findings of this report and is deeply concerned this further damages and erodes the trust and confidence of Londoners in the Met.

“This would have been shocking in the 1970s, let alone today and we know it’s not just Charing Cross.

"Sadiq is calling in the Commissioner to explain how she will ensure that there is no reoccurrence of totally unacceptable behaviour.”

Labour MP Marsha de Cordova said the last 12 months have shown the Metropolitan Police has "deep rooted structural problems from racism to bullying to misogyny".

She added: "Currently we have a commissioner in the job who I do not believe is fit for purpose."