THE disappearance of a four-year-old boy from Virginia has puzzled officials as investigators say the "parents' stories don't match the evidence."

The search for Codi Bigsby, four, has stretched to a second day after the boy went missing from his father's Buckroe Beach neighborhood home on Monday.

Police said the child's father, Cory, informed them Codi was not in his home when he awakened on Monday, telling investigators he searched the house, but the boy was nowhere to be found.

Investigators believe Codi was most likely not abducted, and he would be found near his home in Buckroe Beach, Hampton.

"The investigation does not indicate that he was abducted. There's just no reason to believe it. We certainly are open to that as a possibility. It is not likely," Hampton Police Chief Mark Talbot said.

Officials said there were other children in the home at the time of Codi's disappearance, but the police chief would not say how many children there were.

Police said the toddler's parents live separately, and they've been speaking to the mother and father.

However, as the search stretched to a third day, Talbot said the stories the child's parents told about Codi to investigators don't add up with the evidence.

"I think that's self-explanatory. The evidence doesn't match what we've been told. So we need to investigate further," he said.

The police chief would not go into detail about the stories or the evidence.

Codi lives with his father, Talbot said, and investigators have spoken to "a number of people beyond his parents."

On Wednesday, investigators named Cory as a person of interest in the case.

Hampton Police are seeking 50 volunteers to help assist them in the search.

Investigators have also stretched their search efforts to the Hampton Stream Plant as a means to cover all bases.

The Hampton Stream Plant was the same place where two-year-old Noah Tomlin's body was found in July 2019.

Like Codi's disappearance, Noah's mother, Julia Tomlin, reported her son missing on June 24, 2019, telling police the boy vanished after she woke up in her Buckroe Beach mobile home and he was nowhere to be found.

Tomlin reportedly told police she had last seen the child when she put him in bed at around 1am the previous night.

The toddler’s remains were discovered 10 days later, on July 3, 2019, stuffed in a cardboard Huggies box at the Hampton Stream Plant.

Law enforcement authorities said the body was in “an advanced state” of decomposition, but it was clear that the baby had suffered “horrific and severe” injuries.

Tomlin pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and other charges related to her son's death last December.

Anyone with information regarding Codi's disappearance are asked to call Hampton Police at 757–727–6111.