MEGHAN Markle's wedding speech reportedly left pals in stunned silence - as she discussed divorce before calling Prince Harry 'the one'.

The Duchess of Sussex is said to have made a subtle dig about life in the Royal Family as she addressed guests at the reception in 2018.

She apparently said finding love was "worth the wait" after her split from first husband, filmmaker Trevor Engelson.

Authors Omid Scobie and Carolyn Durand discussed the speech in their sympathetic biography on the Sussexes, Finding Freedom.

They quote an insider who said Meghan had spoken in public only rarely after meeting Harry.

But she decided to speak at the wedding - in a "first for a royal bride".

They wrote: "A first for a royal bride, the move reinforced the idea that this American was no typical duchess."

The source told the writers that as Meghan spoke, "you could literally hear a pin drop".

"For her to have been quiet for as long as she had, and then have this really safe space where she could give these heartfelt remarks, it was a really special moment," they added.

🔵 Read our Meghan and Harry live blog for the latest updates

"She spent so many years, whether on campus, on TV, or advocating for women to be empowered, speaking out. And she's respected that.

"She does have a lot of respect for the family and the institution that she has joined.

"But it's just a different way of living. We'd missed hearing her speak.

"And apparently Meghan felt the same way, because she laughed, 'I know it's been a while'."

Meg thanked the Queen for welcoming her into the family.

She also paid tribute to Prince Charles, who stepped in at the last moment to walk her down the aisle amid a split from her own father Thomas.

American mag US Weekly claims Meghan also referenced her divorce from Mr Engelson.

She said finding love with Harry was "worth the wait" and called him "the one".

It comes as:
• Kate Middleton beamed today as she was hoisted into the air by the England rugby team
• Unofficial merchandise for the Queen's Platinum Jubilee was printed with one major error
• Meghan Markle is reportedly set to relaunch her now-defunct lifestyle blog The Tig
• The Sussexes hit out at Spotify after the site was accused of hosting anti-vaxxer content
• Prince Harry prepares to give a lecture on taking a break - after making just one podcast, despite an £18million deal

Eagle-eyed fans spotted a secret message on the newly-weds' car as they drove away from the service.

Sussex fans zoomed in on the number plate of the Vintage Jaguar E-Type that Harry drove to the reception.

The number plate reads "E190518", which translates to "Established 19 May 2018" - their wedding date.

It emerged after the ceremony that one of Harry's closest friends didn't get an invite to the reception - even though George Clooney and Oprah Winfrey made the cut.

Scobie and Durand say Tom Inskip - known as 'Skippy' - didn't made the 200-strong guest list for the evening event.

He felt he had "lost a friend" following the wedding, they claim.

It's alleged Mr Inskip had been worried about the speed of Harry's relationship with Meghan, and suggested the couple live together before tying the knot.

Although the experts said his comments "came from a good place", Harry was reportedly "very hurt" and banned his old friend from the evening party.

They wrote: "Notable [in his absence from the reception was] Skippy, Harry's old friend, who had questioned the prince's relationship with Meghan, and his wife, Lara.

"They were invited to the wedding ceremony and lunchtime reception [hosted by The Queen] but didn't make the cut for the evening bash."

Meanwhile, footage of Prince Andrew making a very awkward comment about the nuptials has recently resurfaced.

The Duke of York insisted Princess Eugenie's wedding would be more family-focused than the Sussexes' extravagant affair - and said Meghan and Harry have fewer friends.

In a chat on Good Morning, he discussed the differences between the two celebrations, adding: "It will not be the same as the previous one that was held in May.

"This is not a public wedding, this is meant to be a family wedding."

He then went on to compare the guestlists of the two events after Eugenie and Jack invited 850 people compared to Meghan and Harry's 600.

"There'll be a few more people than most people have," the duke said.

"There are a few more than Harry had, but that's just the nature of Eugenie and Jack - they've got so many friends that they need a church of that size to fit them all in."