ARSENAL fans are in store for a treat this year with the release of their All Or Nothing documentary.

The critically-acclaimed series will show behind the scenes footage of what has already been a memorable 2021/22 season - from the Nottingham Forest humbling to the departure of ex-captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.

The likes of Man City, Tottenham, Bayern Munich and Juventus have all had the fly-on-the-wall style docuseries track their progress for a season.

And Arsenal legend Thierry Henry has suggested it may even be "too much" for some players.

Henry, 44, told Prime Video: “For the fans it’s amazing to see what is happening behind closed doors.

"For some players it may be too much.

"But I think it’s good for people on the outside to have an insight.

JOIN SUN VEGAS: GET A FREE £10 BONUS WITH 100s OF GAMES TO PLAY AND NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED (Ts&Cs apply)

"Thank God they didn’t have that when I was playing... it would’ve certainly been entertaining.”

When is All Or Nothing: Arsenal released?

Arsenal and Amazon have confirmed that the hugely-anticipated doc will be released THIS year.

Cameras will follow the Gunners around this season providing brand new insight into Mikel Arteta's squad.

How can I watch All Or Nothing: Arsenal?

All Or Nothing: Arsenal will be shown on Amazon Prime Video.

Amazon Prime Video can be watched for free by grabbing a 30-day Amazon Prime trial.

You can cancel at any time during the month-long trial and Amazon Prime Video is available to stream on your mobile, tablet, TV or games console.

Prime members will be able to watch all episodes of All or Nothing: Arsenal anywhere and anytime on the Prime Video app for smart TVs, mobile devices, Fire TV, Fire TV stick, Fire tablets, games consoles, on Virgin’s V6 TV Box, the Talk Talk TV set top box, Apple TV, Chromecast, BT TV or online at www.amazon.co.uk/primevideo

What have they said?

Mark Gonnella - Arsenal's media and communications director - said: "We are looking forward to giving our fans around the world a unique insight into how we work day to day.

"We have one of the biggest global followings in the game and one consistent thing we hear from fans is their desire to see more about what happens behind closed doors at the club.

"All or Nothing will give our fans and sport lovers an opportunity to learn more about what makes Arsenal such a special club, our trophy laden history and our ambitions for future success."

Dan Grabiner, Amazon's head of UK originals, added: "Arsenal is an historic club going through a fascinating period - and we can’t wait to take viewers behind-the-scenes on the journey of this crucial season.

"All or Nothing is about intimate access to the passion and commitment behind elite sport and in Arsenal we have the perfect subject for the next chapter.

"We are looking forward to Prime members around the world experiencing another Premier League season with a new club, through All or Nothing’s signature quality storytelling and access."