KATIE Price has revealed her stunning home transformation tonight as her Mucky Mansion at last became her "happy home".

The mother-of-five returned to Channel 4 to show off the completed renovation of her West Sussex home, which had been left rotting after years of neglect.

Katie, 43, finally completed renovations on her Mucky Mansion TV show, sitting down with mum Amy and sister Sophie to review the final product.

Kicking back on the sofa, the former glamour model mused as to how the house had finally become her "happy place" after turning it upside-down.

The cameras panned round the home to show off the stunning living-room set-up, with plush pink and green velvet sofas overlooking the countryside views.

Candles and mirrors had been carefully laid out as decoration to make the room appear light, bright and airy - with the fireplace cleared and ready for use.

Elsewhere in the house, teenage daughter Princess' room had been transformed with a huge pink bed, as well as a neon light-up sign spelling out her name.

While youngest son Jett's room had been turned into a jungle paradise, with touches of green and dark wood to give it a natural feel.

The entrance hallway had also been changed - with a neon sign spelling out "Welcome to Pricey Woods'" on the wall, as a note towards Katie's fiancé Carl.

A large lip-shaped love seat and three identical pink dog statues had been added to the space to give it pops of colour, matching the pink staircase bannister.

Sitting to review her handiwork, Katie told her mum and sister how she was pleased of "what she had achieved" in clearing the house.

"The journey of this house hasn't just been about me, it's been about the journey of my kids, my mum, my sister," the star told the cameras.

"I've put my touch on it, and so have my family. But this just goes to show you can turn things around, and I'm really proud of what I have achieved."

"This is my land and my house, now the house is coming back together like I'm coming back together," Katie continued.

"In the past this place has been called the Mucky Mansion, but it's not that any more, it's now my happy home."

It comes after Katie's fan complained after her Mucky Mansion show reached an abrupt end after just three episodes.

Unlike most series, which last at least six episodes, it came to a screeching halt after three - with people able to watch the whole lot online the first to object.

One binge-watcher tweeted: "Could be doing with a lot more episodes, I want to see the whole house now. So happy for you Katie, it’s looking amazing!"

Another asked the star: "Are you gona make anymore episodes for your house renovation? Just binge watched all 3 episodes."

A third insisted: "I enjoyed Katie Price’s Mucky Mansion a lot more than I was expecting to."

Katie has previously made four short films for the channel's lunchtime show, including one about trolling - something her son Harvey, 19, has experienced for years.

Katie Price’s Mucky Mansion is located in Sussex and is a 19-room home surrounded by 10 acres that was once the home of former MP Francis Maude.

The home was first dubbed "Mucky Mansion" after it fell into disrepair and was subjected to vandal attacks.