TOM Brady is set to stay in Florida after his retirement announcement this week as he and Gisele Bündchen build a new mansion in Miami Beach only doors down from Ivanka Trump.

The couple, who are worth a combined $650million, was first spotted touring a $17million mansion on the region's exclusive Indian Creek Island, dubbed "Billionaire Bunker," in Maiy 2021.

The NFL superstar, 44, and his Brazilian-born supermodel wife are reportedly tearing down the old 5,772-square-foot house on the plot to build a new eco-mansion for their family.

Indian Creek Island is known as "the world's most exclusive municipality" with just 34 homes, 42 residents, and a private 13-person police force to keep its high-profile residents safe.

The median value of estates on the island, which is less than half a square mile in size, is $20million.

A single bridge guarded by a formidable gatehouse is the only way to get onto the island and there's an island cop for every three inhabitants to ensure their safety and privacy.

Authorities on the island also patrol it and there is a 24-hour marine patrol that keeps an eye on the water surrounding the swanky neighborhood.

Each house in the area is built around the perimeter of the 300-acre island so that everyone gets a waterfront view.

Nearby, there is an Indian Creek Country Club and an 18-hole golf course right in the middle for residents to enjoy.

Taxes on the gorgeous island are reported to be $427,000 per annum.

A source told Page Six that Brady and 41-year-old Bündchen plan to be heavily involved in the new design of the house which will become the main home for them and son Benjamin, 12, daughter Vivian, 9, and Brady's son from a previous marriage, Jack.

Bündchen is said to be particularly keen to ensure the home is "ecologically sound"

The beautiful, secluded island off the coast of Miami touts a number of famous residents, which include model Adriana Lima, and billionaire businessman Carl Icahn.

Singer Shakira was also once a resident.

Just last year, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner invested in a plot on the island after they moved from DC when Donald left office.

They reportedly bought a 1.84-acre plot that boasts 200 feet of private waterfront, and previously belonged to singer Julio Iglesias, to build their dream home.

Ivanka and Jared's new home was also previously owned by record producer Scott Storch.

It boasts six bedrooms on a 1.3-acre estate. The 8,510-square-foot home also has a double staircase and waterfront views.

Aerial shots last year revealed that the home may need as much work as Brady and Bundchen's.

Yet new pictures from this month showed that the outdoor area had been transformed as the old swamp-like pool was ripped out.

Restoration projects include a retiling of the property's outdoor terrace and the draining and deep-cleaning of a swampy-looking swimming pool.

Brady and his family made the move from Boston to Florida a year before he signed with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

And their landlord is a sports legend as well - New York Yankees Hall of Famer Derek Jeter.

The luxury Tampa property boasts a six-car garage, two boat lifts, and nearly 9,000 square feet of outdoor space.

It also features an 80-foot-long saltwater lap pool with a heated spa and is surrounded by a six-foot-tall privacy wall that residents in the area reportedly dubbed “The Great Wall of Jeter.”

The decision to stay in Flordia comes after the Brady family sold their Tribeca apartment in the Big Apple for a cool $36.8million.

The same year, the couple sold their 12,000-square-foot Brookline, Massachusetts mansion for $32.5 million, Forbes reported.

Brady officially announced his retirement from the NFL on Tuesday.

"I have always believed the sport of football is an 'all-in' proposition - if a 100% competitive commitment isn't there, you won't succeed, and success is what I love so much about our game," Brady wrote in an Instagram post, following a photograph of him in his Bucs uniform.

"There is a physical, mental, and emotional challenge EVERY single day that has allowed me to maximize my highest potential. And I have tried my very best these past 22 years. There are no shortcuts to success on the field or in life.

"This is difficult for me to write, but here it goes: I am not going to make that competitive commitment anymore," he continued.

"I have loved my NFL career, and now it is time to focus my time and energy on other things that require my attention."

In his statement, the star went on to thank the fans, his teammates and family, alongside his coaches.