MICHELLE Heaton has revealed that her close pal Katie Price "saved her" after paying for her to go to rehab to battle her addiction.

The Liberty X singer managed to kick drugs and booze for good last year after a stint in the Priory, which was encouraged by her celebrity friends.

Michelle, 42, who previously opened up on how she'd been on a three-year booze and cocaine binge, told the One For The Road podcast about her rehab stint.

The star entered The Priory clinic in April last after an intervention from showbiz pals led by Katie, 43, who has also spent time at the rehab centre.

"I remember being absolutely done for maybe a couple of months, but the absolute 'done, done' was probably a week in the Priory," Michelle detailed.

"The moment I recognised that I wanted what somebody else had was when I was with my friend Katie Price and I had a massive night out with my other friends.

"It ended in a really bad argument, and my other friends had blamed themselves for me going in the Priory. We know as addicts, that's nothing to do with it.

"I was really hungover and I remember just needing more. My husband was done, I think he was close to walking out. He was done.

"I came home at 6am - I couldn't find my key - I went to my friend's house and Kate came to see me, and she was like a different Katie."

After noticing the positive changes in Katie's behaviour following her own stint in the rehab centre, which her pal arranged for her within 48 hours.

"I said yes [to Katie] and kind of hoped it was going to happen but thought it wasn't going to happen," Michelle went on. "I didn't know there was a solution.

"But Kate, Hugh - my manager - and a couple of friends made it happen. They got the funds together and they got me the consultation."

Michelle opened up last year about how her pals helped her to get into the rehab centre for a four-week stay to beat her drug and alcohol addiction.

Breaking down in tears at the time, she said: “I texted Katie while I was in The Priory, ‘You saved my life’. Because The Priory did save my life.

“What I was doing was a suicide mission. I never actually thought, ‘I want to kill myself’, but ultimately I was killing myself.

“I was crying out for help when I couldn’t actually ask for help. But when you’re an addict, it feels like there’s no way out.”

Michelle had been downing up to two bottles of wine and a bottle of vodka virtually every day since 2018, and snorting cocaine.

She was staring death in the face but wouldn’t accept it until she went into rehab.

Michelle recalls: “There was a moment when I said, ‘I’m not going’. My best friend kicked off at me and said, ‘Michelle — you’re dying’.

“It was a joint effort from all my very dear friends who wanted me to live.”

The married mum of two shot to fame on ITV’s Popstars in 2000, leading to the formation of Liberty X a year later. After they split in 2007 she moved into writing and TV work.

A downward spiral set in when she discovered in 2012 that she was a carrier of the mutated BRCA2 gene.

It meant she had an 85 per cent risk of breast cancer and up to a 40 per cent risk of ovarian cancer. So she took the agonising decision to have a double mastectomy in 2012 and a hysterectomy in 2014.

Michelle said: “The hysterectomy plunged me into early menopause. On paper I’m not recognised as a woman, I have no womanly organs.

“Without the HRT I’m just a walking nothing. But I felt I had to live with that pain and suffering myself because I made that choice.

“I wasn’t allowed to cry or grieve or ask for help and I didn’t have therapy.”

It was at this point that Michelle turned to drinks and drugs.

In The Priory she was told that a healthy level of the enzyme GGT in the blood — which indicates how damaged a person’s liver is — was 30 or less. Hers stood at 2,500.

She said: “They had never seen a girl come in who registered that high. A therapist said to me, ‘We didn’t know if you were going to make it’.”

And as Michelle’s physical state deteriorated, the Brit winner stopped taking care of her appearance.

She said: “I hadn’t washed properly, I was scruffy, I looked grey and I didn’t care.

“Last September I hit rock bottom with the alcohol and had excruciating pains. My doctor could feel my liver sticking out because I was so thin.

“I had scratch scars because liver issues make your skin itchy.”

Michelle, voted Celebrity Mum of the Year in 2014, felt guilty her addiction had forced her husband of 11 years, Hugh, to raise their daughter Faith, nine, and son AJ, seven, as virtually a single parent.

She said: “I felt like a bad mother — the worst. I’m so lucky I’ve got two beautiful children. They just want to see Mummy well and they want to have ‘fun Mummy’.

“They want me to play football with them, they want me to do their hair. It was those simple things that I wasn’t able to give them.

“I never put them at risk in a physical way, but they saw me being sick and were worried about Mummy and wondering why she shouted. And my husband wondered if I’d be alive when he woke up.”

One of her lowest points came five months ago, when she went on a huge bender the night before going on stage in panto in Liverpool.

She said: “It was five minutes before the show started and I was violently sick all over the floor. I screamed out for help. I fell on the floor and was sick again.

“I was so cold, shaky, I couldn’t even stand up or move my head. So I had to make the call to not do the show. I was devastated.”