It was to Rangers’ frustration and Celtic’s relief that tonight’s Old Firm derby was rescheduled from its original date on Jan 2 and both emotions have been endorsed by events since the Scottish Premiership restarted after an extended winter break. The New Year fixtures were postponed because the Scottish Government limited attendances at sporting events to 500 in response to the surge in the omicron variant.

Rangers were all for sticking to the calendar as it had been arranged, which would have deprived their arch-rivals of a capacity gate and consequent income, and also the psychological advantage of playing in front of a ravenous home support of 60,000. At that stage, too, Celtic’s casualty list was substantial and their manager, Ange Postecoglou, had been forced to make five changes for the Boxing Day trip to face St Johnstone, where matters got worse when Kyogo Furuhashi was injured after only 14 minutes.

In contrast, Rangers’ home win over St Mirren later the same afternoon maintained their six-point lead at the top of the table, which would have constituted a comfort margin ahead of a trip to the east end of Glasgow until the pandemic intruded. Since the restart of the league programme, Celtic have taken maximum points from their games at home to Hibs and Dundee United and away to Hearts.

Rangers, meanwhile, restarted with a draw at Pittodrie against Aberdeen and a 1-0 home win over Livingston before Saturday’s 3-3 draw with Ross County. Their margin for error has all but evaporated, and defeat will see them fall behind Celtic for the first time in a campaign for which the substantial prize is an automatic Champions League place worth a minimum of £30 million. Are Rangers on the back foot? The erosion of their significant points advantage seems to indicate as much, when considered alongside the loss through injury of Ianis Hagi for the rest of the season.

During the January transfer window Celtic signed the Japanese trio of Daizen Maeda, Reo Hatate and Yosuke Ideguchi along with Johnny Kenny from Sligo Rovers and Matt O’Riley from MK Dons.

“I was really pleased that the players we brought in, we got in nice and early,” Postecoglou said. “They were already part of the squad, they are already part of the environment and, in January, it worked really well.”

Meanwhile, Rangers, apart from signing Mateusz Zukowski from Lechia Gdansk, concentrated on loan signings, these being James Sands from New York FC, Manchester United’s Amad Diallo and Aaron Ramsey, whose banishment from the Juventus first team provided a startling opportunity to bring in the Welsh international despite lively interest from other suitors.

Postecoglou tends to speak only about his own players, but he was prepared to offer an opinion on Ramsey, albeit in qualified terms. “Club wise he hasn’t played a lot, but when he played for the national team in the summer he still looked a very, very good player,” Postecoglou said. “So, it’s good for the league but, with all these signings, whether they are high profile or not, it comes down to performances. No one had heard of Kyogo before I brought him here, but no one’s going to tell me he’s not good for the Scottish game.”

Whatever impact Ramsey might have on the Scottish game, it will not begin against Celtic, according to Rangers manager Giovanni van Bronckhorst, who said: “Aaron will not be in the squad. He’s been out for a couple of weeks. Although he trained with the squad today and looks really good, tomorrow comes too soon for him.”

International duty with Colombia will deprive Rangers of Alfredo Morelos, while Celtic will have to do without Tom Rogic, who has been with Australia. Rogic played for the Socceroos in their 2-2 World Cup qualifying win over Oman in Muscat yesterday. Nir Bitton would have been a likely stand-in, but the Israeli midfielder is suspended.

Asked about the opportunity to go top for the first time in this campaign – and to make up for Celtic’s 1-0 defeat in the first derby at Ibrox on Aug 29, Postecoglou said: “These kinds of narratives work well, but when you represent this football club, even if you’ve won the last nine, you are expected to win the 10th. It doesn’t matter if you’ve won or lost in previous encounters. What’s important is what you do in the next one – and that’s tomorrow night. We have to go out there and play our football.”