The Bank of England is also expected to announce an increase in interest rates on Thursday, potentially from 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent - further squeezing families with mortgages. It is the second interest rate rise in three months.

Some 2.2 million homeowners, or one in four mortgage borrowers, on variable rate deals will be impacted by the decision, while banks are also beginning to raise costs of fixed-rate deals.

While 0.5 per cent is still historically low and below pre-pandemic levels, there is an expectation on the financial markets that Thursday’s decision will be followed by three more rises - pushing rates up to 1.25 per cent.

For weeks, MPs have been calling on Mr Sunak to cut the 12 per cent of energy bills that goes towards funding green energy programmes, known as “green levies”.

The policy was championed by the former Labour government and has continued under successive Conservative prime ministers David Cameron, Theresa May and Boris Johnson.

On the eve of Thursday’s announcements, a string of former Tory ministers urged the Treasury - already under pressure to reduce taxes - to cut green levies.

'Tax cuts and lasting cuts to fuel costs is what we need'

Steve Baker, the former Brexit minister, said: “Once again they are piling intervention on intervention, when we should be a free market, conservative government.

“The levies should be suspended and moved on to general taxation.

“I’m always going to be attracted to doing things which reduce the tax burden on consumers, rather than bailing out people on the supply side at the taxpayers’ expense. That’s not capitalism, that is a form of crony corporatism which I’ve always opposed.”

Sir John Redwood, the former Welsh secretary, said: “Taxing us more through National Insurance to lend more money to power companies is not the way to ease the cost of living squeeze. Tax cuts and lasting cuts to fuel costs by producing more is what we need.”

Another former minister said: “After the bounce-back debacle, you would have thought the Government would have learnt that lending out people’s money with no guarantee it will be paid back is a bad idea.

“The Conservative Party surely would be better off cutting taxes like green levies and VAT.”

A string of interventions have been considered by Number 10 and Number 11 Downing Street over recent weeks to ease the cost of living crisis that looms this spring.

It is one of the most politically challenging issues facing Mr Johnson, with inflation and interest rate increases happening at the same time as tax rises and soaring energy bills.