Facebook has suffered a sharp drop in profits after Mark Zuckerberg’s costly bet on the “metaverse” hit its bottom line, with shares collapsing over 22pc in after hours trading.



Meta, the social media giant’s new corporate name, revealed that profits had fallen by 8pc to $10.3bn (£7.8bn) in the final quarter of last year, even as revenues rose by 20pc to $33.6bn.

If shares fall at the same rate when trading opens in New York on Thursday, Facebook's parent company will have about $180bn wiped off its value.



Meta’s figures came after shares in payments giant PayPal fell by 25pc, knocking more than $50bn off its value, after it dramatically missed Wall Street growth forecasts.



PayPal revealed worse-than-expected guidance for the start of the year and said it had deleted millions of illegitimate accounts.



The numbers stand in stark contrast to Big Tech rivals Google, Apple and Microsoft which have all revealed sizeable leaps in profit in recent days.



Shares in Google parent Alphabet climbed by as much as 10pc to see the company briefly regain a $2 trillion valuation it last hit in November.



On Wednesday, however, the market was disappointed by Meta’s forecasts for the first quarter of 2022, when growth is expected to slow down considerably.



Revenue is estimated to rise by between 3pc and 11pc to between $27bn and $29bn.



Chief financial officer David Wehner said that Meta is facing “increased competition for people's time” while users are shifting towards short video content, which offers fewer opportunities for monetisation compared to social media feeds.



Trading will also be compared to a strong period last year, when there was stronger demand for social media amid global lockdowns, while cost inflation and supply chain disruptions are hitting advertiser budgets.



Mr Zuckerberg last year outlined plans to spend $10bn on developing the metaverse in the hope that humans will in future spend much more time in immersive digital worlds and virtual reality (VR).



He has focused his company on the concept, a move that sceptics say is designed to distract from the many political scandals and investigations it is facing.



Wednesday’s figures, the first since Mr Zuckerberg announced Facebook was changing its name to Meta in October, also saw the company reveal revenues for its VR division, Reality Labs.



It said the unit’s sales had risen to $877m from $717m in the same period last year, though losses ballooned to $3.3bn from $2bn.



Despite the company’s increasing focus on the metaverse, its social networks, Facebook and Instagram, are expected to be the biggest source of revenues, and investors’ main concern, for several years.



Meta said that Facebook now has 3.6bn monthly active users, up 9pc, and 1.9bn people use it every day. Across the “family” of Facebook, Instagram and messaging app WhatsApp, it now has 3.6bn monthly active users.



Mr Zuckerberg said: "We had a solid quarter as people turned to our products to stay connected and businesses continued to use our services to grow.



"I'm encouraged by the progress we made this past year in a number of important growth areas like Reels, commerce, and virtual reality, and we'll continue investing in these and other key priorities in 2022 as we work towards building the metaverse."



Meta’s shares have fallen in recent months, alongside other tech companies, amid concerns that inflation, higher interest rates and the declining impact of Covid-19 will put an end to the tech boom seen during the pandemic.



The profit slowdown is likely to spook investors because Facebook has largely delivered reliable growth since its 2012 flotation. It reported declines in profits in 2019, when it was fined $5bn by US authorities over the Cambridge Analytica scandal, and 2015, when the company also went on a spending spree.