One of the Conservative Party's most powerful regional politicians has called for the freedom to cut taxes to attract more business investment and accused Michael Gove of lacking ambition in his long-awaited levelling up paper.

Ben Houchen, mayor of Tees Valley, said that the Government's flagship plan to transform the British economy “did not go far enough” and warned ministers had “fallen too far on the cautious side of the line”.

His comments are a blow to Mr Gove, the Levelling Up Secretary, who unveiled a 332-page prospectus on Wednesday including aspirations to deliver ultra-fast broadband, far better transport links and a major improvement in education across the English regions.

The plans were also criticised by Steve Baker, the senior Tory backbench MP, who dismissed their reliance on big state solutions as "socialist".

Mr Houchen, who was one of the first Conservatives to break through Labour's Red Wall when elected in 2017, argued that mayors must be given the freedom to cut taxes so that businesses are encouraged to set up in their areas - an idea which he believes is being opposed by the Treasury.

He said: “The obvious thing to do would be to devolve business rates to a combined authority level and they have stopped short of that.”

“It's not always about throwing money down people's throats. If I had control of business rates, I’d slash business rates across the board. That's going to stimulate private sector investment, that's going to create jobs and put more money in people’s pockets.”

The levelling up White Paper, written by former Bank of England chief economist Andy Haldane, is backed by no extra Treasury funding beyond last autumn’s spending review and consists largely of repackaged measures.

Mr Gove told MPs it would "make opportunity more equal and to shift wealth and power decisively towards working people and their families".

He said: “We need to allow overlooked and undervalued communities to take back control of their destiny. Because we know that, while talent is spread equally across the United Kingdom, opportunity is not.”

But the minister faced a backlash in the Commons from his own side as Mr Baker said that the proposals were “as socialist as I feared”.

Writing on Twitter, he said: “We should be using our 80-seat majority to implement Conservative policies, not policies that wouldn’t look out of place in Labour’s manifesto.”

Mr Baker added that he fears the policies are creating "little Soviets across the country".

He said: "That sort of programme, a programme of increasing the number of elected representatives in executive positions with money to spend and control over people's lives, to me is the essence of the socialist programme."