Alicia Keys shared her excitement on Instagram that Janet Jackson said she would date her in a 2008 interview. (Sean Zanni/Patrick McMullan via Getty/Dave J Hogan)

Alicia Keys is flattered that Janet Jackson said she had a crush on the piano-playing pop star and would have dated her in an old interview.

Keys posted a screenshot from a 2008 article in which Jackson revealed she had a crush on her. In the interview, Jackson proudly explained that she would totally date Keys, who she described as “wonderful”, if she was ever to have a lesbian relationship.

“I always knew I was BAE but when [Janet Jackson] says it,” Keys captioned the post, adding in several explosion emojis.

Several high-profile celebrities were thrilled by the post and commented their support for Keys on Instagram.

Singer Lachi gushed that Jackson clearly “has great taste”, and West Side Story actor Ariana DeBose echoed this sentiment.

“Well, hot dayumn!!!!!!! …. Where is the lie? Gorgeous gorgeous women. Yes,” DeBose wrote.

Grammy-winning singer Brandi Carlile declared that Keys now has “props for life” as all “lesbians now bow down to you”.

One fan commented that Alicia Keys must have “otherworldly” confidence to be able to “call yourself BAE and then have it validated by Janet Jackson”.

“I kinda did feel some kind of way !!!!” Keys admitted.

Janet Jackson has long been an influential figure in the pop music world with a stellar career spanning over four decades. She has released a total of 16 albums and sold an estimated 100 million copies over all.

Several artists – including Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera and Jennifer Lopez, just to name a few – have spoken about how much Jackson inspired their careers.

She is also one of the few women to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. During her acceptance speech in 2019, she threw down the gauntlet and called on the museum and hall of fame to “induct more women”.

Jackson’s new documentary, titled Janet, chronicled the highs and lows of the pop music legend’s career and features candids conversions from the star about her life.

In it, the famously private star opened up about her complicated relationships with her late father Joe and brother Michael, the impact of her marriages and even her ill-fated Super Bowl halftime show in 2004 with Justin Timberlake.

The release of the four-part documentary, which has been heralded as the “definitive story on Janet”, also commemorated the 40th anniversary of her self-titled 1982 debut album.