As well as Astle, who will become the PFA’s project lead for neurodegenerative diseases, the PFA have appointed Rachel Walden, whose father Rod Taylor also died of dementia following a professional career, to lead the family support advisory team.

That team already has two other staff members but, in a clear sign of the scale of the problem, the PFA will recruit three additional staff. Penny Watson, the wife of former England captain Dave Watson who has also been diagnosed with dementia, will become an independent PFA consultant.

Astle says that all of football’s stakeholders, from the PFA to the Football Association, Premier League and English Football League, now have a moral duty to create an industry care fund to support former players. The Telegraph highlighted the case on Tuesday of Tony Parkes, whose family’s savings have been wiped out by his care costs and is now relying on Crowdfunding to keep him in the same residential home.

“People talk about greed in football - but what better way to show that the game is not all about greed than to give back to those who are dying because they were former players,” said Astle.

“What these families go through is brutal. Many times I have had sons or daughters come to me and say, ‘If my dad hadn't died when he did, we would have been burying my mum first’.”

The PFA Charity has reserves of £58.9 million but has been largely separated from the PFA Union following a Charity Commission inquiry and Astle hopes that these funds can be used to help former players. Molango will now also try to reach agreement with other football stakeholders on a sustainable long-term care model.

“Now is the time for the whole of football, including clubs, leagues and governing bodies, to recognise their collective responsibility to protect former players who have contributed so much to the game,” said Molanga. “This means providing comprehensive support to former players and their families, who are currently living with dementia and other neurodegenerative diseases. It has to be the top priority for all involved in football.”

Tony Parkes' family struggling to fund care as football accused of 'shocking' lack of support

The football industry was facing urgent calls to finally establish a fund to support former players with dementia after a Crowdfunding page was set up to help pay the care costs for Blackburn Rovers legend Tony Parkes.

The former player, coach and manager, who is known at Ewood Park as ‘Mr Blackburn’, was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2019 but faces an uncertain future after the family’s entire savings were wiped out by the costs of his residential care.

His daughter, Natalie Parkes-Thompson, has always been convinced that her father’s job - and the repeated heading of footballs - caused his condition and that belief was reinforced following research which showed that former professionals are five times more likely to die of Alzheimer’s.

There is, however, still no industry fund to assist hundreds of former players facing huge associated care costs and, more than two years after being submitted, an application to recognise dementia in football as an industrial disease is still being considered by Government scientific advisors.

“Alzheimer’s doesn’t get any better and right now the future looks pretty bleak,” said Parkes-Thompson. “Dad worked all his life to provide a better future for me and my family but by the end there will be absolutely nothing left.

“A lot of these ex-professionals don’t have any money behind them now. It’s hard to think of all the many people we don’t know about, who have kept this private, and are suffering.”

Parkes-Thompson was previously forced to give up her job as a primary school teacher to care for her father but, with two young children and Parkes’s deteriorating condition, was forced to move him into care in 2020. Monthly costs of almost £4,000, which are due to rise by 12 per cent next month, have eaten through their savings, leaving the family home as their only remaining asset.

“Dad is currently in his seventh lockdown and every time they reopen he has deteriorated further,” said Parkes-Thompson. “He doesn’t respond well to window visits and phone calls are impossible. I just wait and hope he doesn’t think I have just abandoned him.

“He doesn’t remember my mum and I am not sure he actually understands what daughter means but he still knows me and that is something that I am forever grateful for.”