Halsey has announced details of the Love and Power Tour and tickets go on sale this week. (Noam Galai/Getty Images for BudX)

Halsey has announced the 2022 Love and Power Tour – and tickets go on sale very soon.

The singer will headline venues across the US and Canada between 17 May and 9 July.

Fans will be able to get their hands on tickets from 10am local time on 4 February from Ticketmaster.

This article contains affiliate links, PinkNews may earn revenue if you click through and purchase products through the links.

They announced details of the tour on their social media, captioning the post: “it’s been far too long and i could not be more excited to see you all.”

It’ll be in support of their Grammy-nominated album If I Can’t Have Love, I Want Power, which was released in 2021.

The LP features singles “I Am Not a Woman, I’m a God” and “You Asked for This” and sees them experiment even further with an alt-rock sound.

Fans can also expect to her favourites from their back catalogue, including “Nightmare”, “You Should Be Sad”, “Gasoline” and “Without Me”.

They’ll be supported by a number of different artists across the tour including PinkPantheress, Beabadoobee, Wolf Alice, The Marias and Äbby Rober.

You can find out everything you need to know, including presale info, ticket prices and the full tour schedule below.

How to get Halsey presale tickets

There’s a number of presales taking place this week for fans to secure their tickets early for Halsey’s tour.

This one takes place from 10am local time on (Tuesday) 1 February on Ticketmaster. It’s for fans who previously purchased tickets to see Halsey on their 2020 Manic World Tour, which was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic.

These fans will be contacted by your point of purchase with a link or code to access the past purchaser presale.

These presales take place from 10am local time on (Wednesday) 2 February on Ticketmaster. This is available for fans who are signed up to Halsey’s mailing list, while the Citi Cardmember presale is available for those card owners.

These presales take place from 10am local time on (Thursday) 3 February on Ticketmaster. Fans who follow and regularly listen to Halsey on Spotify will be sent a link to access presale tickets.

If you miss out or can’t access the presales then the general release tickets will be available from 10am local time on 4 February via Ticketmaster here.

How much are Halsey tickets?

It’s been confirmed that tickets for their show at Red Rocks Amphitheatre in Morrison, CO are priced between $59.50 and $149.50.

Fans can expect a similar price range for all dates on the Love and Power Tour.