It comes as new polling shows the majority of the public think the investigation into Downing Street parties should continue and only a quarter feel Mr Johnson should remain as Prime Minister.

Four in five Britons also believe Mr Johnson "broke the coronavirus regulations with parties in Downing Street", according to surveys carried out by JL Partners.

It was just as brutal for Mr Johnson in the Commons, where he endured another heated PMQs in which even Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle snapped.

Of course, the party revelations came to the public's attention after leaking of information, most likely by civil servants, and Tom Harris analyses how "partygate" has boosted the power of The Blob.

In an attempt to take control of the news agenda, Michael Gove unveiled the Government's flagship Levelling Up plans in the House of Commons, suggesting it will shift more power "from Whitehall to working people" and "give renters a secure path to greater home ownership".

Not everyone will be happy, as the plans mean hundreds of thousands of landlords face bills of £15,000 amid a crackdown on poor-quality rental homes.

The plans aim for the "majority of the population" to have 5G mobile coverage by 2030 but Vodafone's boss has said mobile companies must be allowed to unleash a wave of consolidation if ministers want to deliver the goal.

Gavin Rice analyses why the Levelling Up white paper is not enough to save this Government.

The plan was not the only big announcement from ministers trying to grasp the agenda today.

Priti Patel has signalled that spiking is to become a specific criminal offence to prevent hundreds of offenders from escaping prosecution.

Even if the Levelling Up plans prove a hit and Mr Johnson avoids a no-confidence vote, the cost of living crisis is set to make more headlines this week.

The Bank of England is expected to raise interest rates tomorrow - amid expectations that inflation could reach 7pc by April.

This is set against a backdrop of eurozone inflation surging to a record high, piling pressure on Christine Lagarde and the European Central Bank to raise interest rates and wind down pandemic stimulus efforts.

Yet will the Bank of England make any difference by increasing interest rates?

Jeremy Warner lays out the impossible choice facing central banks, and warns inflation is back, and this time it is serious.
• Zoe Strimpel | Goldberg proved what woke 'antiracism' can become
• Patrick O'Flynn | Brexit isn't 'done' until PM solves the Channel crisis
• Madeline Grant | Insulting Captain Tom should not be a crime
• James Brown | I ditched my smartphone and it did not end well

Around the world: Biden to send 3,000 more troops

Joe Biden has ordered the deployment of a further 3,000 American troops to Eastern Europe in the first major movement of forces since the Ukraine crisis began. About 2,000 of those troops will move from the US to Poland and Germany, while the remaining 1,000 personnel will reposition from Germany to Romania. The troop movement will reportedly take place "in the coming days". The report comes as the US proposed allowing Moscow to confirm the absence of cruise missiles at bases in Romania and Bulgaria, according to leaked proposals on defusing the Ukraine crisis. Meanwhile, RAF fighter jets have been scrambled to respond to "Russian bombers" approaching the UK.

Chris Eubank Jnr: 'You have to go to the city of sin'