The 2017 verdict that Goodwillie had, on the balance of probabilities, raped a woman in 2011, is not his only run-in with the law. He had already twice been convicted of assault in a criminal court. And yet his career has barely skipped a beat. Each time he was bubble-wrapped by football, continued to be selected by managers or packaged on to new sides, where he was free to play on.

Crowds continued to cheer Goodwillie’s name, and children have no doubt looked up to him – some may even have worn his name on the back of their shirts. And that is precisely why decision makers in football need to understand the power of the platform, and how it is no ordinary job in which to rebuild or repent.

“While acknowledging the gravity of what happened 10 years ago, as a club we fully support and encourage rehabilitation,” the club statement argued.

And this column is certainly not denying Goodwillie’s right to continue work and move on with his life. But, despite what the board at Raith Rovers believes, football is no place to rehabilitate a rapist, especially those who have shown zero outward remorse.

As Sturgeon puts it, “Football players … it’s not an ordinary job, like first minister is not an ordinary job. Footballers are role models and football clubs have a responsibility to make sure they’re positive role models to the wee boys and the wee girls who look up to them.”

Raith Rovers have long been a community club, situated in a close-knit town where football sits at the heart of its identity. McDermid is the embodiment of what it means to have your life completely intertwined with football. Despite being a best-selling author, in Kirkcaldy she is simply known as the daughter of Raith Rovers’ scout Jim McDermid, who famously discovered one of Scotland’s greats, Jim Baxter.

McDermid spent her childhood pitchside with her father as he scoured the area for the club’s next big signing. As an adult, she became the first woman to sponsor a football shirt in the sport’s history, and the North Stand at Stark’s Park is named after her after she committed a six-figure fund.

Now, she is sickened by the idea of “a rapist” running onto the field with a shirt that bears her name.

In considering Goodwillie “a part of Raith Rovers FC”, the club alienated McDermid and many others who can no longer align their identities with the team they thought they knew. As the women’s side, supported by McDermid, began reprinting kits without the famous Raith Rovers club badge, those who have spent the week wondering whether football really speaks for them struggled under the weight of yet another painful blow.